# Cameco Corporation
# 来源：Annual MD&A - English.pdf (977b9dec82d68699)

Management’s discussion and analysis 

February 9, 2023 

10 

17 

23 

32 

36 

38 

66 

94 

99 

MARKET OVERVIEW AND DEVELOPMENTS 

2022 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 

OUR VISION, VALUES AND STRATEGY  

OUR ESG PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES 

MEASURING OUR RESULTS  

FINANCIAL RESULTS  

OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS  

MINERAL RESERVES AND RESOURCES   

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

This management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) includes information that will help you understand management’s 
perspective of our audited consolidated financial statements (financial statements) and notes for the year ended December 31, 
2022. The information is based on what we knew as of February 8, 2023. 

We encourage you to read our audited consolidated financial statements and notes as you review this MD&A. You can find 
more information about Cameco, including our financial statements and our most recent annual information form, on our 
website at cameco.com, on SEDAR at sedar.com or on EDGAR at sec.gov. You should also read our annual information form 
before making an investment decision about our securities. 

The financial information in this MD&A and in our financial statements and notes are prepared according to International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), unless otherwise indicated.  

Unless we have specified otherwise, all dollar amounts are in Canadian dollars. 

Throughout this document, the terms we, us, our, the Company and Cameco mean Cameco Corporation and its subsidiaries, 
unless otherwise indicated.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Caution about forward-looking information  

Our MD&A includes statements and information about our expectations for the future. When we discuss our strategy, plans, future financial 
and operating performance, or other things that have not yet taken place, we are making statements considered to be forward-looking 
information or forward-looking statements under Canadian and United States (US) securities laws. We refer to them in this MD&A as forward-
looking information. 

Key things to understand about the forward-looking information in this MD&A: 
 

 
 
 

 

It typically includes words and phrases about the future, such as: anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, plan, will, intend, goal, target, 
forecast, project, vision, strategy and outlook (see examples below). 
It represents our current views and can change significantly.  
It is based on a number of material assumptions, including those we have listed on page 5, which may prove to be incorrect. 
Actual results and events may be significantly different from what we currently expect, due to the risks associated with our business. We 
list a number of these material risks on page 4. We recommend you also review our most recent annual information form, which includes 
a discussion of other material risks that could cause actual results to differ significantly from our current expectations. 
Forward-looking information is designed to help you understand management’s current views of our near- and longer-term prospects, 
and it may not be appropriate for other purposes. We will not necessarily update this information unless we are required to by securities 
laws. 

Examples of forward-looking information in this MD&A 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

our view that we have the strengths to take advantage of the 
world’s rising demand for safe, reliable, affordable and 
carbon-free energy, and our vision to energize a clean-air 
world 
we will continue to focus on delivering our products 
responsibly and addressing the environmental, social and 
governance (ESG) risks and opportunities that we believe 
will make our business sustainable and will build long-term 
value 
our expectations about 2023 and future global uranium 
supply, consumption, contracting, demand, geopolitical 
issues and the market including the discussion under the 
heading Market overview and developments 
our expectations for the future of the nuclear industry and the 
potential for new enrichment technology, including that 
nuclear power must be a central part of the solution to the 
world’s shift to a low-carbon climate-resilient economy 
our efforts to participate in the commercialization and 
deployment of small modular reactors (SMRs) and increase 
our contributions to global climate change solutions by 
exploring SMRs and other emerging opportunities within the 
fuel cycle 
our views on our ability to self-manage risk 
the discussion under the heading Our strategy 
the discussion under the heading Our response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic, including the priority of employee 
health and safety in our plans 
our expectations regarding the operation of, and production 
levels for, the Cigar Lake mine and McArthur River/Key Lake 
operation and the Port Hope UF6 conversion facility 
the discussion under the heading Our ESG principles and 
practices including our belief there is a significant opportunity 
for us to be part of the solution to combat climate change 
and that we are well positioned to deliver significant long-
term business value 
our expectations for uranium purchases, sales and deliveries 

2     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

the anticipated timing for the finalization of the SE NNEGC 
Energoatom (Energoatom) supply contract, volume 
requirements under the contract and our expectation that 
Cameco will provide sufficient volumes of UF6 under it to 
meet Ukraine’s full nuclear fuel needs through 2035 
our intentions regarding future dividend payments 
the discussion of our expectations relating to our Canada 
Revenue Agency (CRA) transfer pricing dispute, including 
our expectations regarding receiving refunds and payment of 
disbursements from CRA, our confidence that the courts 
would reject any attempt by CRA to utilize the same or 
similar positions for other tax years currently in dispute, our 
plan to file a notice of objection for 2016 and our belief that 
CRA should return the full amount of cash and security that 
has been paid or otherwise secured by us 
the discussion under the heading Outlook for 2023, including 
expected business resiliency, expectations for 2023 average 
unit cost of sales, average purchase price per pound, 
deliveries and production, 2023 financial outlook, our 
revenue, expectations for 2023 cash balances, tax rates, 
adjusted net earnings and cash flow sensitivity, and our price 
sensitivity analysis for our uranium segment 
the discussion under the heading Liquidity and capital 
resources, including expected liquidity to meet our 2023 
obligations and our expectations for our uranium contract 
portfolio to provide a solid revenue stream 
our expectation that the uranium contract portfolio we have 
built will continue to provide a solid revenue stream, and our 
portfolio management strategy, including our inventory 
strategy and the extent of our spot market purchases 
our expectation that our cash balances and operating cash 
flows will meet our anticipated 2023 capital requirements 
our expectations for future capital expenditures 
our expectation that in 2023 we will be able to comply with all 
the covenants in our unsecured revolving credit facility 
life of mine operating cost estimates for the Cigar Lake, 
McArthur River/Key Lake and JV Inkai operations  

 
 

 
 
 

future plans and expectations for uranium properties, 
advanced uranium projects, and fuel services operating 
sites, including production levels and suspension of 
production at certain properties, pace of advancement and 
expansion capacity, carbon reduction targets and mine life, 
and that our core growth is expected to come from our 
existing tier-one mining and fuel services assets 
our expectations related to care and maintenance costs  
our mineral reserve and resource estimates 
our decommissioning estimates 

 

the discussion of our expectations relating to our acquisition 
of a 49% interest in Westinghouse Electric Company 
(Westinghouse), including the sources and uses of financing 
for the acquisition, the timeline of the acquisition, including 
the anticipated closing thereof, and the acquisition 
organizational structure, equity accounting for our  
investment, generation of new revenue opportunities, the 
potential to generate additional revenue in the year following 
the acquisition closing, our expectation that the acquisition  
will be accretive to our cash flow after closing,  
Westinghouse's ability to generate cash flow to fund its  
approved annual operating budget and provide quarterly 
distributions to the partners after closing, the acquisition 
expanding our participation in the nuclear fuel value chain, 
and providing a platform for further growth, our intention in 
respect of not issuing additional equity to fund our portion of 
the purchase price for the Westinghouse acquisition and 
various factors and drivers for Westinghouse’s business 
segment

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     3 

 
Material risks

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

actual sales volumes or market prices for any of our products 
or services are lower than we expect, or cost of sales is 
higher than we expect, for any reason, including changes in 
market prices, loss of market share to a competitor, trade 
restrictions, geopolitical issues or the impact of the COVID-
19 pandemic 
we are adversely affected by changes in currency exchange 
rates, interest rates, royalty rates, tax rates, or inflation  
our production costs are higher than planned, or necessary 
supplies are not available, or not available on commercially 
reasonable terms 
our strategies may change, be unsuccessful or have 
unanticipated consequences, or we may not be able to 
achieve anticipated operational flexibility and efficiency 
changing views of governments regarding the pursuit of 
carbon reduction strategies or our view may prove to be 
inaccurate on the role of nuclear power in pursuit of those 
strategies 
our estimates and forecasts prove to be inaccurate, including 
production, purchases, deliveries, cash flow, revenue, costs, 
decommissioning, reclamation expenses, or receipt of future 
dividends from JV Inkai 
the Westinghouse acquisition may be delayed or may not be 
completed on the terms in the acquisition agreement or at all 
consummation of the Westinghouse acquisition is subject to 
the satisfaction of closing conditions and regulatory 
approvals that may not be satisfied on a timely basis or at all 
that we may not realize the expected benefits from the 
Westinghouse acquisition 
after closing the acquisition, Westinghouse fails to generate 
sufficient cash flow to fund its approved annual operating 
budget or make quarterly distributions to the partners 
we are unable to enforce our legal rights under our existing 
agreements, permits or licences 
we are subject to litigation or arbitration that has an adverse 
outcome 
that we may not receive expected refunds and payments 
from CRA 
that the courts may accept the same, similar or different 
positions and arguments advanced by CRA to reach 
decisions that are adverse to us for other tax years 
the possibility of a materially different outcome in disputes 
with CRA for other tax years 
that CRA does not agree that the court rulings for the years 
that have been resolved in Cameco’s favour should apply to 
subsequent tax years 
that CRA will not return all or substantially all of the cash and 
security that has been paid or otherwise secured in a timely 
manner, or at all 
there are defects in, or challenges to, title to our properties 
our mineral reserve and resource estimates are not reliable, 
or there are unexpected or challenging geological, 
hydrological or mining conditions 

4     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

we are affected by environmental, safety and regulatory 
risks, including workforce health and safety or increased 
regulatory burdens or delays resulting from the COVID-19 
pandemic or other causes 
necessary permits or approvals from government authorities 
cannot be obtained or maintained 
we are affected by political risks, including the early-2022, 
and any potential future, unrest in Kazakhstan  
operations are disrupted due to problems with our own or our 
suppliers’ or customers’ facilities, the unavailability of 
reagents, equipment, operating parts and supplies critical to 
production, equipment failure, lack of tailings capacity, labour 
shortages, labour relations issues, strikes or lockouts, 
underground floods, cave-ins, ground movements, tailings 
dam failures, transportation disruptions or accidents, aging 
infrastructure or other development and operating risks 
we are affected by terrorism, sabotage, blockades, civil 
unrest, social or political activism, outbreak of illness (such 
as a pandemic like COVID-19), accident or a deterioration in 
political support for, or demand for, nuclear energy 
a major accident at a nuclear power plant 
we are impacted by changes in the regulation or public 
perception of the safety of nuclear power plants, which 
adversely affect the construction of new plants, the 
relicensing of existing plants and the demand for uranium 
government laws, regulations, policies or decisions that 
adversely affect us, including tax and trade laws and 
sanctions on nuclear fuel imports 
our uranium suppliers or purchasers fail to fulfil their 
commitments  
our McArthur River development, mining or production plans 
are delayed or do not succeed for any reason 
our Cigar Lake development, mining or production plans are 
delayed or do not succeed for any reason 
our production plans for our Port Hope UF6 conversion 
facility do not succeed for any reason 
the McClean Lake’s mill production plan is delayed or does 
not succeed for any reason 
water quality and environmental concerns could result in a 
potential deferral of production and additional capital and 
operating expenses required for the Cigar Lake and 
McArthur River/Key Lake operations 
JV Inkai’s development, mining or production plans are 
delayed or do not succeed for any reason, or JV Inkai is 
unable to transport and deliver its production 
we may be unsuccessful in pursuing innovation or 
implementing advanced technologies, including the risk that 
the commercialization and deployment of SMRs or new 
enrichment technology may incur unanticipated delays or 
expenses, or ultimately prove to be unsuccessful 
our expectations relating to care and maintenance costs 
prove to be inaccurate 
the risk that we may become unable to pay future dividends 
at the expected rate 

 
 

 

 

we are affected by natural phenomena, including inclement 
weather, fire, flood and earthquakes 
the risks that generally apply to all our operations and 
advanced uranium projects that are discussed under the 
heading Managing the risks beginning on page 67 
the risks relating to our tier-one uranium operations 
discussed under the heading McArthur River mine/Key Lake 
mill – Managing Our Risks beginning on page 73, under the 
heading Cigar Lake – Managing Our Risks beginning on 
page 76, and under the heading Inkai – Managing Our Risks 
beginning on page 80 

Material assumptions 

 

 

 

 

 

 

our expectations regarding sales and purchase volumes and 
prices for uranium and fuel services, cost of sales, trade 
restrictions, inflation and that counterparties to our sales and 
purchase agreements will honour their commitments 
our expectations for the nuclear industry, including its growth 
profile, market conditions, geopolitical issues and the 
demand for and supply of uranium 
the continuing pursuit of carbon reduction strategies by 
governments and the role of nuclear in the pursuit of those 
strategies 
the assumptions discussed under the heading 2023 
Financial Outlook 
our expectations regarding spot prices and realized prices 
for uranium, and other factors discussed under the heading 
Price sensitivity analysis: uranium segment 
the Westinghouse acquisition is closed on the anticipated 
timeline and on the terms of the acquisition agreement 

  Westinghouse’s ability to generate cash flow and fund its 

 

approved annual operating budget and make quarterly 
distributions to the partners after closing of the acquisition 
our ability to compete for additional business opportunities 
so as to generate additional revenue for us in the year after 
closing the Westinghouse acquisition 

  market conditions and other factors upon which we based 

the Westinghouse acquisition and our related forecasts will 
be as expected 
the success of our plans and strategies relating to the 
Westinghouse acquisition 
that the construction of new nuclear power plants and the 
relicensing of existing nuclear power plants will not be more 
adversely affected than expected by changes in regulation or 
in the public perception of the safety of nuclear power plants 
our ability to continue to supply our products and services in 
the expected quantities and at the expected times 
our expected production levels for Cigar Lake, McArthur 
River/Key Lake, JV Inkai and our fuel services operating 
sites 
our cost expectations, including production costs, operating 
costs, and capital costs 
our expectations regarding tax payments, tax rates, royalty 
rates, currency exchange rates and interest rates 
our entitlement to and ability to receive expected refunds and 
payments from CRA 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

risks relating to the Energoatom supply contract, including 
the risk that it will not be finalized within the time or on the 
terms expected, our ability to supply UF6 under the contract, 
that the option for us to supply the Zaporizhzhya nuclear 
power plant, if exercised, may not result in the delivery 
volumes expected and that the continuation or outcome of 
the conflict between the Ukraine and Russia may prevent 
Cameco from realizing its expected benefits 

in our dispute with CRA, that courts will reach consistent 
decisions for other tax years that are based upon similar 
positions and arguments 
that CRA will not successfully advance different positions 
and arguments that may lead to different outcomes for other 
tax years 
our expectation that we will recover all or substantially all of 
the amounts paid or secured in respect of the CRA dispute 
to date 
our decommissioning and reclamation estimates, including 
the assumptions upon which they are based, are reliable 
our mineral reserve and resource estimates, and the 
assumptions upon which they are based, are reliable 
our understanding of the geological, hydrological and other 
conditions at our uranium properties 
our Cigar Lake and McArthur River development, mining and 
production plans succeed 
our Key Lake mill production plan succeeds 
the McClean Lake mill is able to process Cigar Lake ore as 
expected 
our production plans for our Port Hope UF6 conversion 
facility succeed 
JV Inkai’s development, mining and production plans 
succeed, and that JV Inkai will be able to transport and 
deliver its production 
the ability of JV Inkai to pay dividends 
that care and maintenance costs will be as expected 
our and our contractors’ ability to comply with current and 
future environmental, safety and other regulatory 
requirements, and to obtain and maintain required regulatory 
approvals 
our operations are not significantly disrupted as a result of 
political instability, nationalization, terrorism, sabotage, 
blockades, civil unrest, breakdown, natural disasters, 
outbreak of illness (such as a pandemic like COVID-19), 
governmental or political actions, litigation or arbitration 
proceedings, the unavailability of reagents, equipment, 
operating parts and supplies critical to production, labour 
shortages, labour relations issues, strikes or lockouts, 
underground floods, cave-ins, ground movements, tailings 
dam failure, lack of tailings capacity, transportation 
disruptions or accidents, aging infrastructure or other 
development or operating risks 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     5 

 
 
 
 

assumptions regarding the Energoatom supply contract, 
including that we will reach agreement on final terms within 
the time and on the terms expected, delivery volumes, our 
ability to supply UF6 under the contract, and that we will not 
be prevented from realizing the expected benefits of the 
contract because of the continuation or outcome of the 
conflict between Ukraine and Russia

6     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
[This page is intentionally left blank.] 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     7   

 
 
   
 
 
   
Market overview and developments 

A market in transition 

In 2022, geopolitical events coupled with the ongoing focus on the climate crisis created what we believe are transformative 
tailwinds for the nuclear power industry from both a demand and supply perspective. Uranium prices continued to rise, 
reaching levels not seen since 2011 driven by a tightened uranium market and growing security of supply concerns. In early-
January, unrest in Kazakhstan raised concerns about the more than 40% of global uranium supply that originates from 
Kazakhstan. However, it was the Russian invasion of Ukraine in late-February that was the most transformative event for our 
industry. We believe it has set in motion a geopolitical realignment in energy markets that is highlighting the increasingly 
important role for nuclear power not just in providing clean energy, but also providing secure and affordable energy. And, with 
the global nuclear industry reliant on Russian supplies for approximately 14% of uranium concentrates, 27% of conversion and 
39% of enrichment, it is highlighting the security of supply risk associated with the growing primary supply gap and shrinking 
secondary supplies and increasing the focus on origin of supply.  

With the heightened supply risk caused by geopolitical uncertainty, utilities are evaluating their nuclear fuel supply chains. 
Utilities continue to be focused on ensuring they have the conversion and enrichment services they require secured under 
long-term contracts and are now beginning to return their focus to uranium. The uncertainty about where nuclear fuel supplies 
will come from to satisfy growing demand led to increased long-term contracting activity in 2022. This contracting activity 
resulted in a 22% increase in the long-term price of uranium over the past year, conversion prices that are at historic highs, 
and enrichment prices that have increased over 210% since the start of the invasion of Ukraine. Notably, utilities are now 
approaching replacement rate contracting for the first time in over a decade. Therefore, we expect there will be continued 
competition to secure uranium, conversion and enrichment services under long-term contracts with proven producers and 
assets in geopolitically attractive jurisdictions, with strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance and on 
terms that will ensure the availability of reliable supply to satisfy demand.  

DURABLE DEMAND GROWTH 

The benefits of nuclear energy have come clearly into focus with a durability we believe has not been previously seen. The 
durability is being driven not only by accountability for achieving the net-zero carbon targets set by countries and companies 
around the world, but also by a geopolitical realignment that is causing countries to reexamine how they approach their energy 
needs. Net-zero carbon targets are turning attention to a triple challenge. First, is to lift one-third of the global population out of 
energy poverty by growing clean and reliable baseload electricity. Second, is to replace 85% of the current global electricity 
grids that run on carbon-emitting sources of thermal power with a clean, reliable alternative. And finally, is to grow global 
power grids by electrifying industries, such as private and commercial transportation, home, and industrial heating, largely 
powered with carbon-emitting sources of thermal energy today. Additionally, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has deepened 
the energy crisis experienced in some parts of the world and amplified concerns about energy security, highlighting the role of 
energy policy in balancing three main objectives: providing a clean emissions profile; providing a reliable and secure baseload 
profile; and providing an affordable levelized cost profile. There is increasing recognition that nuclear power meets these 
objectives and has a key role to play in achieving decarbonization goals. The growth in demand is not just long-term in the 
form of new builds, it is medium-term demand in the form of reactor life extensions, and it is near-term growth as early reactor 
retirements are prevented and new markets continue to emerge. And we are seeing momentum building for non-traditional 
commercial uses of nuclear power around the world such as development of small modular reactors and advanced reactors, 
with numerous companies and countries pursuing projects. 

Demand and energy policy highlights 

  China announced plans to accelerate new nuclear projects to combat future electricity shortages, indicating it could raise 

the number of new reactor construction approvals to ten or more per year. In 2022, there were ten approvals.  

10     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
  In December, Japan announced a new plan to maximize nuclear power by restarting as many existing reactors as possible, 
prolonging the operating lives of aging reactors beyond a 60-year limit, and building new reactors. This followed an earlier 
pledge by Japan’s Prime Minister Kishida to have up to 17 reactors restarted by the summer of 2023. Additionally, the 
government set a target for nuclear to make up 20% to 22% of the country’s energy mix by the end of the decade, and 
under the new policy will push for the development and construction of “next-generation innovative reactors” to replace 
about 20 reactors now set for decommissioning. 

  South Korea finalized their 10th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand in January 2023. The plan aims to maintain 
30% of the country’s 2030 energy mix as nuclear power, resume construction on Units 3 and 4 at the Shin Hanul nuclear 
plant, and sets a goal of exporting 10 nuclear power plants by 2030, as well as the development of a Korean small modular 
reactor (SMR). This positive news builds from the earlier 2022 announcements that included nuclear power in South 
Korea’s green taxonomy and reversed the previous administration’s anti-nuclear stance.  

  In July 2022, the European Parliament voted to keep nuclear power in the European Union’s sustainable finance taxonomy 

as a transitional “green” investment. The Complimentary Delegated Act from this vote was entered into application on 
January 1, 2023. Including nuclear power in the “transitional” category indicates that it will help mitigate climate change but 
cannot yet be replaced by economically and technologically feasible low-carbon alternatives. 

  Following the Russian invasion, numerous European countries announced their intention to reduce reliance on Russian-
supplied nuclear fuel under long-term contracts. For example, on June 2nd, Ukraine’s state-owned utility, Energoatom, 
signed an agreement with Westinghouse to supply all its nuclear fuel and increase the number of planned AP1000 reactor 
new builds from five to nine. Numerous other countries have also taken steps to diversify their nuclear fuel supply. 

  In Sweden, a newly elected coalition majority government immediately updated the country’s energy policy to be more pro-
nuclear. They cited a significant shift away from the previous focus on renewables, changing the previous goal of "100% 
renewable" electricity by 2040 to "100% fossil free electricity", and have put forward legislation to allow for the construction 
of more reactors. 

  Belgium shut down its Doel-3 nuclear reactor in September, but in January announced 10-year life extensions for their two 
newest reactors, Doel 4 and Tihange 3. These reactors were set to close in 2025 but will now restart in November 2026 
after the necessary preparation and will continue operating for 10 years. 

  Chancellor Olaf Scholz has ordered the life extension of Germany’s three remaining reactors until mid-April 2023, keeping 

them on stand-by due to energy concerns. 

  In November 2022, the United Kingdom (UK) announced that it would take a joint stake alongside French partner Électricité 
de France (EDF) in the construction of its new Sizewell C nuclear power station, replacing China General Nuclear’s 20% 
stake. The UK will invest £700 million in the project, which will be matched by EDF. 

  In France, the government and regulator are working on conditions to extend the operating lives of existing reactors and are 
planning an “industrial build” program with the start of construction around 2028 for the first two of six new EPR reactors 
and with plans for eight additional EPRs in the future. In addition, the French state is finalizing increased ownership in EDF 
from 84% to 100% to provide a smooth energy transition, ensure sovereignty in the face of war and firm up the company’s 
diminished financial situation. 

  In Finland, Teollisuuden Voima Oyj announced Olkiluoto 3, the 1,600 MWe EPR, resumed test electricity production in 

December following a few months delay with regular electricity production now scheduled to start in March 2023. 

  Poland confirmed its intent to build nuclear power capacity for the first time and is progressing plans with both 

Westinghouse for AP1000 PWR’s and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP) for APR 1400’s. 

  Egypt began construction on the first two of four Russian built VVER 1200 reactors at the El-Dabaa Power Plant as the 

government looks to accelerate the project. Additionally, in December, Egypt announced plans to start mining uranium in 
2024 as part of the country's rapidly developing program for peaceful use of nuclear energy. 

  India’s first domestically designed 700 MWe pressurized heavy water reactor at Kakrapar is now in commercial operation, 
an important milestone for the country. Three more units of this design are expected to come online in the next few years. 
The country is targeting an expansion to have 22.5 GWe operating by 2031. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  In August 2022, President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) into law. Through $369 billion (US) in tax 
incentives and other investments, IRA is a major federal legislative initiative enacted to address climate change. The IRA 
includes significant support for nuclear power with the establishment of a Production Tax Credit to support existing nuclear 
reactors and provides $700 million (US) to incentivize the development of domestic sources of high-assay low-enriched 
uranium. Additionally, in December, the International Nuclear Energy Act passed a US Senate Committee vote and is 
expected to be reintroduced to Congress. The bill seeks to promote engagement with partner and ally nations to develop a 
civil nuclear export strategy, establish financing relationships, standardize licensing frameworks, and is designed to offset 
the influence of Russia and China in the international nuclear market. This support comes in addition to ongoing work at 
various levels of the US government to eliminate US dependence on nuclear fuel imports from Russia. 

  In California, Governor Newsom signed a bill seeking to extend operations at the Diablo Canyon Power Plant for five years 

beyond its current licence, which expires in 2025.  

  Southern Company announced fuel loading began in October 2022 for Vogtle unit 3, the first of two 1,250 MWe AP1000’s 
under construction in Georgia. The company also confirmed its plans to apply to have the operating licences for its Farley 
and Hatch reactors extended to 80 years. This followed similar announced extensions for Tennessee Valley Authority’s 
Browns Ferry reactor, Xcel Energy’s Monticello reactor, and Dominion Energy’s Virgil C. Summer reactor. 
  Mexico's Laguna Verde nuclear plant has been granted 30-year operating life extensions for its two units. 
  Ontario Power Generation (OPG) announced plans to extend the life of the Pickering nuclear power plant until at least 2026 
and potentially up to 30 years. In addition, OPG signed an agreement with X-energy to examine deploying their Xe-100 
SMR. Finally, OPG issued a $300 million Green Bond, a first-of-its-kind for the company and part of its commitment to be 
net zero by 2040. The funds are to be used to finance the refurbishment activities at its Darlington site, where life 
extensions to four units are in progress, as well as for maintenance of existing nuclear facilities. 

  In October 2022, OPG completed a significant project milestone by submitting an application for a Licence to Construct to 
the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC). This licence application is the next step in the deployment of a SMR at 
the Darlington site. The submission comes after the beginning of site preparation activities earlier in 2022, which was 
another significant milestone.  

  In late 2022, Bruce Power achieved a major milestone in the refurbishment of Unit 6, as project teams successfully installed 
the CANDU reactor’s fuel channel assembly, which puts the project on track to return to operation in 2023. Additionally, the 
Unit 3 refurbishment campaign is scheduled to begin in March 2023.  

  Sprott Physical Uranium Trust (SPUT) purchased about 17 million pounds U3O8 in 2022, bringing total purchases since 
inception to over 41 million pounds U3O8. The challenging equity markets in recent months have contributed to SPUT 
shares trading at a discount to net asset value, impacting its ability to raise funds to purchase uranium.  

According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, globally there are currently 439 operable reactors and 57 reactors under 
construction. Several nations are appreciating the clean energy and energy security benefits of nuclear power. They have 
reaffirmed their commitment to it and are developing plans to support existing reactor units and are reviewing their policies to 
encourage more nuclear capacity. Several other non-nuclear countries have emerged as candidates for new nuclear capacity. 
In the EU, specific nuclear energy projects have been identified for inclusion under its sustainable financing taxonomy and 
therefore eligible for access to low-cost financing. Even in countries where phase-out policies were in place, there have been 
policy reversals and decisions to, at a minimum, temporarily keep reactors running, with public opinion polls showing growing 
support for it. With a number of reactor construction projects recently approved, and many more planned, the demand for 
uranium continues to improve. There is growing recognition of the role nuclear must play in providing safe, affordable, carbon-
free baseload electricity that achieves a low-carbon economy while being a reliable energy source to help countries diversify 
away from Russian energy supply.  

12     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

18

0

1

2

3

CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION
4

10

9

8

7

6

5

China

India

Africa & Middle East

Asia

Russia

European Union

Eastern Europe

Americas

US

UK

4

3

3

2

2

2

8

8

7

Number of reactors

Source: IAEA

WORLD OPERABLE REACTOR COUNT

448

451

447

443

439

439

s
r
o
t
c
a
e
r

f
o
r
e
b
m
u
N

400

300

200

100

0

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

Source: IAEA

SUPPLY UNCERTAINTY 

In addition to low uranium prices, government-driven trade policies, the COVID-19 pandemic, and ongoing supply chain 
challenges, the most notable factor impacting security of supply in 2022 was geopolitical uncertainty. The geopolitical 
uncertainty, driven by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, has led many governments and utilities to re-examine supply chains 
and procurement strategies that are reliant on nuclear fuel supplies coming out of Russia. In addition, sanctions on Russia, 
government restrictions, and restrictions on and cancellations of some cargo insurance coverage are creating transportation 
and further supply chain risks for fuel supplies coming out of Central Asia. Despite the recent increase in uranium prices, years 
of underinvestment in new capacity and the deepening geopolitical uncertainty has shifted risk from producers to utilities.  

Supply and trade policy highlights 

  In November 2022, Cameco announced that the first pounds of uranium ore from the McArthur River mine had been milled 
and packaged at the Key Lake mill, marking the achievement of initial production as the facilities transition back into normal 
operations.  

  In early January 2022, Kazakhstan saw the most significant political instability since it became independent in 1991. The 
events resulted in a state of emergency being declared across the country. Order was restored in the second half of 
January, and the state of emergency was gradually lifted. In November 2022, President Tokayev was re-elected for a new 
7-year term. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Kazatomprom (KAP) announced in August 2022 its plan to produce 10% below its total Subsoil Use Contracts level in 

2024. This plan was expected to result in increased production in Kazakhstan of about 5 million to 8 million pounds U3O8 
compared to the current 20% reduction, bringing total expected annual uranium production to about 65 million pounds in 
2024. KAP stated the decision was based on its contracting progress but that it may still face significant challenges to 
increase above current production levels due to the state of global supply chains. In January 2023, KAP’s operational 
update showed lower expected production in 2023 due to wellfield development, procurement and supply chain issues, 
resulting in forecasted production of between 53.3 million and 55.9 million pounds, compared to between 58.5 million and 
59.8 million pounds previously. 

  KATCO, the joint venture between Orano Mining and KAP, was granted a new mining permit for a parcel of the Muyunkum 
uranium deposit bringing total estimated uranium reserves to about 120 million pounds U3O8. The full production level of 
about 10.4 million pounds U3O8 is planned for 2026 at the earliest. 

  Orano announced plans to increase its enrichment production capacity by 30%, which could involve an expansion of the 
Georges-Besse II plant located in Tricastin. The cost of the project is estimated at $970M (US) and could increase the 
capacity at its Georges Besse II plant to 11 million separative work units (SWU) from 7.5 million SWU. 

  GLE made progress with the first full-scale laser system module, successfully completing eight months of testing in 

Australia. The system, which was developed by Silex Systems Ltd for deployment in GLE’s commercial pilot demonstration 
facility has been delivered to GLE's facility in the US. Additionally, GLE signed letters of intent (LOI) to collaborate with two 
major US utilities to help diversify a portion of the US nuclear fuel supply chain, including measures to support its 
deployment of laser enrichment technology in the US.  

  In June, Boss Energy Limited (Boss) finalized their decision to develop the Honeymoon Uranium Project in South Australia. 
Boss intends to accelerate construction and is projecting Honeymoon will have first production in the fourth quarter of 2023, 
ramping up to 2.45 million pounds U3O8 production per year within three years. 

  ConverDyn’s parent, Honeywell, is planning for a 2023 restart of its UF6 conversion facility. 

Long-term contracting creates full-cycle value for proven productive assets 

Like other commodities, the demand for uranium is cyclical. However, unlike other commodities, uranium is not traded in 
meaningful quantities on a commodity exchange. The uranium market is principally based on bilaterally negotiated long-term 
contracts covering the annual run-rate requirements of nuclear power plants, with a small spot market to serve discretionary 
demand. History demonstrates that in general, when prices are rising and high, uranium is perceived as scarce, and more 
contracting activity takes place with proven and reliable suppliers. The higher demand discovered during this contracting cycle 
drive investment in higher-cost sources of production, which due to lengthy development timelines, tend to miss the 
contracting cycle and ramp up after demand has already been won by proven producers. The new uncommitted supply 
exposed to the small, discretionary spot market puts downward pressure on price and can create the perception that uranium 
is abundant, potentially resulting in a failure of long-term price signals. When prices are declining and low, there is no 
perceived urgency to contract, and contracting activity and investment in new supply dramatically decreases. After years of 
low prices, and a lack of investment in supply, and as the uncommitted material available in the spot market begins to thin, 
security-of-supply tends to overtake price concerns. Utilities typically re-enter the long-term contracting market to ensure they 
have a reliable future supply of uranium to run their reactors. 

14     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
300

250

200

150

100

50

8

O
3
U
s
b

l

n
o

i
l
l
i

m
n

i

e
m
u
o
V

l

URANIUM CONTRACTING VOLUMES AND PRICE HISTORY 

Spot market

Long-term market

$120.00

$100.00

Average Spot Price

$80.00

8

O
3
U
b
l
/
$
S
U
n

i

e
c
i
r

P

$60.00

$40.00

$20.00

$0.00

0
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022

UxC reports that over the last five years approximately 430 million pounds U3O8 equivalent have been locked-up in the long-
term market, while approximately 775 million pounds U3O8 equivalent have been consumed in reactors. We remain confident 
that utilities have a growing gap to fill. 

We believe the current backlog of long-term contracting presents a substantial opportunity for proven and reliable suppliers 
with tier-one productive capacity and a record of honoring supply commitments. As a low-cost producer, we manage our 
operations to increase value throughout these price cycles. 

Source: UxC estimates

UTILITY UNCOVERED REQUIREMENTS
(2022 - 2040)

US Utilities

Non-US Utilities

8

O
3
U
s
b

l

n
o

i
l
l
i

m

250

200

150

100

50

0

2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040

Source: UxC estimates ‐ December 31, 2022

In our industry, customers do not come to the market right before they need to load nuclear fuel into their reactors. To operate 
a reactor that could run for more than 60 years, natural uranium and the downstream services have to be purchased years in 
advance, allowing time for a number of processing steps before a finished fuel bundle arrives at the power plant. At present, 
we believe there is a significant amount of uranium that needs to be contracted to keep reactors running into the next decade. 

UxC estimates that cumulative uncovered requirements are about 2.3 billion pounds to the end of 2040. With the lack of 
investment over the past decade, there is growing uncertainty about where uranium will come from to satisfy growing demand, 
and utilities are becoming increasingly concerned about the availability of material to meet their long-term needs. In addition, 
secondary supplies have diminished, and the material available in the spot market has thinned as producers and financial 
funds continue to purchase material. Furthermore, the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February has given rise to a geopolitical 
realignment in energy markets that is causing some utilities to seek nuclear fuel suppliers whose values are aligned with their 
own or whose origin of supply better protects them from potential interruptions, including from transportation challenges or the 
possible imposition of formal sanctions.   

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     15 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We will continue to take the actions we believe are necessary to position the company for long-term success. Therefore, we 
will continue to align our production decisions with our customers’ needs under our contract portfolio. We will undertake 
contracting activity which is intended to ensure we have adequate protection while maintaining exposure to the benefits that 
come from having uncommitted, low-cost supply to place into a strengthening market. 

16     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
2022 performance highlights 

It was another positive year for the nuclear energy industry. Demand for nuclear power, including support for existing reactors, 
continues to grow, catalyzed by the increasing recognition by policy makers and major industries that nuclear energy must 
play an important role in achieving the objectives of providing clean, secure, reliable and affordable energy. Geopolitical unrest 
highlighted the importance of energy policy decisions on national security. With nuclear energy clearly back in durable growth 
mode, we are also back in durable growth mode. Growth that will be sought in the same manner as we approach all aspects of 
our business; strategic, deliberate, disciplined and responsible and with a focus on generating full-cycle value.  

In our uranium segment, in 2022, we added 80 million pounds to our portfolio of long-term uranium contracts; about 58 million 
of which are finalized and 22 million accepted with key commercial terms, such as pricing mechanism, volume and tenor 
having been agreed to, but still awaiting contract finalization; and we have a large and growing pipeline of uranium business 
under discussion. Our focus continues to be on obtaining market-related pricing mechanisms, while also providing adequate 
downside protection. We continue to be strategically patient in our discussions to maximize value in our contract portfolio and 
to maintain exposure to higher prices with unencumbered future productive capacity. In addition, with strong demand in the 
UF6 conversion market, we were successful in adding long-term contracts that we expect will profitably underpin that operation 
for years to come. We finalized contracts for almost 12 million kgU of UF6 conversion in 2022 and have another almost 5 
million kgU that have been accepted and are awaiting contract finalization.  

In 2022, we operated at about 60% below the productive capacity (100% basis) in our uranium segment due to the impact of 
our planned supply discipline decisions, including to transition McArthur River/Key Lake back to production after five years on 
care and maintenance. Productive capacity includes licensed capacity at Cigar Lake of 18 million pounds (100% basis) per 
year and McArthur River/Key Lake of 25 million pounds (100% basis) per year, and it includes planned production volumes at 
Rabbit Lake and our US operations prior to curtailment in 2016. We produced 18 million pounds (100% basis) from the Cigar 
Lake mine and began the restart of production at our McArthur River mine and Key Lake mill, producing 1.1 million pounds 
(100% basis) in 2022. Through our investment in Inkai, we were impacted by the 20% supply reduction enacted by 
Kazatomprom (KAP) across all uranium mines in Kazakhstan and the continued supply chain challenges it has faced. 
Kazatomprom has the ability to flex production 20% above or below planned production levels (8.3 million to 12.5 million 
pounds per year). As well, delivery of our share of 2022 production from JV Inkai was delayed due to the challenges of 
transporting uranium via an alternate route that does not rely on Russian rail lines or ports. The first shipment, containing 2.6 
million pounds of our share of Inkai’s 2022 production, arrived at a Canadian port in late December. A second shipment 
containing the majority of our remaining share of 2022 production is currently in transit. 

We delivered over 25 million pounds of uranium and 11 million kgU in our fuel services segment to our customers in alignment 
with our contract portfolio and profitable opportunities in the market. We generated $305 million in cash from operations, with 
higher sales volumes in our uranium segment and higher average realized prices in both our uranium and fuel services 
segments than in 2021. With some delays in commissioning at the Key Lake mill, operational readiness costs were $169 
million for the year and production from the mill was lower than originally anticipated. To meet our sales commitments and 
maintain a working inventory we purchased 18.3 million pounds of uranium at an average cost of $39.45 (US) per pound. 
While the unit cost of our purchases is significantly higher than the average production costs at Cigar Lake in 2022, the 
average cost was moderated by our ability to pull forward some of the long-term fixed-price purchase arrangements that were 
put in place in a much lower price environment. See 2022 financial results by segment – Uranium starting on page 57 for more 
information.  

Thanks to the disciplined execution of our strategy, our balance sheet is strong, and we expect it will enable us to see out our 
strategy as well as self-manage risk, including from global macro-economic uncertainty and volatility. As of December 31, 
2022, we had $2.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments with only $997 million in long-term debt. In 
addition, we have a $1.0 billion undrawn credit facility. The strength of our balance sheet allowed us to take advantage of two 
opportunities that we believe will add significant long-term value for Cameco.  

In May 2022, we announced the acquisition of a greater share in the Cigar Lake mine for $107 million, increasing our 
ownership to 54.5% (from 50%). Cigar Lake is a proven, permitted and fully licensed tier-one mine in a safe and stable 
jurisdiction that we operate with the tremendous participation and support of our neighbouring Indigenous partner 
communities. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     17 

 
In October 2022, we announced we had entered a strategic partnership with Brookfield Renewable Partners and its 
institutional partners (Brookfield Renewable) to acquire 100% of Westinghouse Electric Company (Westinghouse), a global 
provider of mission-critical and specialized technologies, products and services across most phases of the nuclear power 
sector. The acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2023 and is subject to customary closing conditions and 
certain regulatory approvals. Once the transaction closes, Brookfield Renewable, will beneficially own a 51% interest in 
Westinghouse and we will beneficially own 49%. We believe bringing together our expertise in the nuclear industry with 
Brookfield Renewable’s expertise in clean energy positions nuclear power at the heart of the clean energy transition and 
creates a powerful platform for strategic growth across the nuclear sector.  

The total enterprise purchase price for the acquisition is $7.875 billion (US), which includes an assumption of an estimated 
$3.4 billion (US) of debt which will remain with Westinghouse, and which is subject to customary purchase price adjustments. 
The remainder of the purchase price will be paid by approximately $4.5 billion (US) of aggregate cash contributions, our share 
of which will be approximately $2.2 billion (US). Following the announcement, we undertook a $650 million (US) bought deal 
offering of common shares, with an underwriter option to purchase additional shares. The offering closed on October 17, 2022, 
with gross proceeds to us of approximately $747.6 million (US), including the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to 
purchase additional common shares. Net proceeds from the issuance were received in October 2022 and the US dollar cash 
and cash equivalents and short-term investments are included on our balance sheet. The final financing is not required until 
close of the acquisition and will be determined based on market conditions and the expected run rate of our business at that 
time. We expect a permanent financing mix of capital sources, including cash, debt and equity, designed to preserve our 
balance sheet and ratings strength, while maintaining healthy liquidity. See Proposed acquisition of Westinghouse beginning 
on page 89 for more information on the proposed acquisition. 

With nuclear power’s clean emissions profile, reliable and secure baseload characteristics and low, levelized cost there was an 
intensified focus on preventing early reactor retirements, pursuing 10- and 20-year life extensions for the existing fleets in 
several countries, and the construction of new reactors, both traditional large-scale reactors and small and advanced nuclear 
reactors. 2022 brought further support for nuclear power as the Russian invasion of Ukraine deepened the energy crisis 
impacting many regions of the world and highlighted the need for energy security and affordability. Energy security concerns in 
regions such as Central and Eastern Europe have resulted in demand from new markets for Western nuclear fuel supplies. In 
addition, utilities globally are evaluating their sources of supply with a focus on origin. The increased nuclear fuel demand for 
Western supply of products and services, supply that established producers like we and like Westinghouse can offer, presents 
itself in the near, medium and long term. 

Increased demand is occurring at a time when there is considerable growing uncertainty about nuclear fuel supplies. Macro 
uncertainty including the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain disruptions, inflationary pressures and rapidly rising interest rates, 
and geopolitical unrest have accelerated this uncertainty. Low prices have led to supply concentration by origin, and a growing 
primary supply gap. Secondary supplies that have played a crucial role in our industry have been drawn out of the market. 
And, with the global nuclear industry reliant on Russian supplies for approximately 14% of uranium concentrates, 27% of 
conversion, and 39% of enrichment, utilities are now considering and planning for a variety of potential scenarios ranging from 
an abrupt end to Russian supplies to a gradual phase-out in nuclear fuel supply chains. As a result, we are seeing some 
utilities beginning to pivot towards procurement strategies that more carefully weigh the origin risk, and which supports 
producers with assets in geopolitically favourable jurisdictions. 

18     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
In the current environment, we believe the risk to uranium supply is greater than the risk to uranium demand and expect it will 
create a renewed focus on ensuring availability of long-term supply to fuel nuclear reactors. With the improvements in the 
market, the new long-term contracts we have put in place, and a pipeline of contracting discussions, we have decided to adjust 
our production plan for McArthur River/Key Lake to produce 18 million pounds per year (100% basis) starting in 2024, and we 
plan to continue to operate Cigar Lake at 18 million pounds per year (100% basis) in 2024. At Inkai, production will continue to 
follow the 20% reduction planned by KAP until the end of 2023. With annual licensed capacity of 25 million pounds at 
McArthur River/Key Lake, we continue to have the ability to expand production from our existing assets, however some 
additional investment would be required. If we took advantage of all of the tier-one expansion opportunities, our annual share 
of tier-one supply could be about 32 million pounds. However, any decision to expand production will be dependent on further 
improvements in the uranium market and our ability to secure the appropriate long-term contract homes for our 
unencumbered, in-ground inventory, demonstrating that we continue to responsibly manage our supply in accordance with our 
customers’ needs. In addition to our plans to expand uranium production, at our Port Hope UF6 conversion facility we are 
working on increasing annual production to 12,000 tonnes by 2024 to satisfy our book of long-term business and demand for 
conversion services, at a time when conversion prices are at historic highs. See Our vision, values and strategy starting on 
page 23 for more information. 

We expect the investments we have and will continue to make in digital and automation technologies will allow us to operate 
our assets with more flexibility. This is key to our ability to continue to align our production decisions with our contract portfolio 
commitments and opportunities. With a solid base of contracts to underpin our productive capacity, and a growing contracting 
pipeline we are beginning to return to our tier-one cost structure, which we expect will significantly improve our financial 
performance. 

As we execute on our strategy, we will continue to focus on protecting the health and safety of our employees, delivering our 
products safely and responsibly and addressing the ESG risks and opportunities that we believe will make our business 
sustainable and will build long-term value.   

Financial performance 

HIGHLIGHTS 

DECEMBER 31 ($ MILLIONS EXCEPT WHERE INDICATED) 

Revenue 

Gross profit 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 

$ per common share (diluted) 

Adjusted net earnings (loss) (non-IFRS, see page 40) 

$ per common share (adjusted and diluted) 

Cash provided by operations 

 2022 

 1,868 

 233 

 89 

 0.22 

 135 

 0.33 

 305 

 2021 

 1,475 

 2 

 (103) 

 (0.26) 

 (98) 

 (0.25) 

 458 

CHANGE 

27% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

(33)% 

Net earnings attributable to equity holders (net earnings) and adjusted net earnings in 2022 significantly outperformed 2021 
when we had a net loss for the year. See 2022 consolidated financial results beginning on page 39 for more information. Of 
note: 
  generated $305 million in cash from operations 
  incurred $218 million in care and maintenance costs and operational readiness costs as a result of our strategic decisions  

Our segment updates and other fuel cycle investment updates 

In our uranium segment, we continued to execute our strategy to preserve our tier-one assets which impacted our operations. 
Of note in 2022, we: 
  produced 18 million pounds (100% basis) at Cigar Lake and increased our ownership to 54.5% 
  began the restart of production at McArthur River/Key Lake, producing 1.1 million pounds (100% basis). Production was 

impacted by commissioning challenges at the mill. 

  maintained Rabbit Lake and US ISR operations on care and maintenance 
  purchased 18.3 million pounds of uranium, including our spot purchases, committed purchase volumes (including JV Inkai 

purchases), and advancing some long-term purchases 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     19 

 
 
 
 
  delivered on our sales commitments of over 25 million pounds in alignment with our contract portfolio and profitable market 

opportunities  

  added a record number of contracts with 80 million pounds added to our portfolio (58 million pounds finalized and 22 million 

pounds accepted and awaiting contract finalization). 

In 2022, in our fuel services segment, we: 
  produced 13.0 million kgU, which included an annual UF6 production record of over 10.6 million kgU  
  delivered 11.1 million kgU under contract 
  with UF6 conversion prices at historic highs, we finalized contracts for 12 million kgU as UF6 and have another almost 5 

million kgU as UF6 that have been accepted, awaiting contract finalization. 

See Operations and projects beginning on page 66 for more information. 

Other investment updates from 2022: 
  GLE delivered the first full-scale laser system module to its facility in the US after successfully completing eight months of 

testing in Australia 

  In October, we announced the proposed acquisition of Westinghouse 

See Global Laser Enrichment and Proposed acquisition of Westinghouse beginning on page 89 for more information. 

HIGHLIGHTS 

Uranium 

Production volume (million lbs) 

Sales volume (million lbs) 

Average realized price1 

Revenue ($ millions) 

Gross profit (loss) ($ millions) 

($US/lb) 

($Cdn/lb) 

Fuel services 

Production volume (million kgU) 

Sales volume (million kgU) 

Average realized price 2 

($Cdn/kgU) 

Revenue ($ millions) 

Gross profit ($ millions) 

 2022 

 10.4 

 25.6 

 44.73 

 57.85 

 1,480 

 121 

 13.0 

 11.1 

 32.92 

 365 

 117 

 2021 

 6.1 

 24.3 

 34.53 

 43.34 

 1,055 

 (108) 

 12.1 

 13.6 

 29.72 

 404 

 118 

CHANGE 

70% 

5% 

30% 

33% 

40% 

>100% 

7% 

(18)% 

11% 

(10)% 

(1)% 

1 Uranium average realized price is calculated as the revenue from sales of uranium concentrate, transportation and storage fees divided by the volume of 

uranium concentrates sold. 

2 Fuel services average realized price is calculated as revenue from the sale of conversion and fabrication services, including fuel bundles and reactor 

components, transportation and storage fees divided by the volumes sold. 

Also of note, subsequent update 

As announced in February 2023, we have reached agreement on commercial terms for a major supply contract to provide 
sufficient volumes of natural uranium hexafluoride (UF6) (consisting of uranium and conversion services) to SE NNEGC 
Energoatom (Energoatom) to meet Ukraine’s full nuclear fuel needs through 2035. Key commercial terms, such as pricing 
mechanism, volume and tenor, have been agreed to, but the contract is subject to finalization, which is anticipated in the first 
quarter of 2023.  

The agreement will run from 2024 through 2035 and contract amounts are subject to customary volume flexibility provisions 
commonly contained in supply agreements. Additionally, the agreement will contain a required degree of flexibility, given 
present circumstances in Ukraine. The agreement will be for 100% of Energoatom’s UF6 requirements (consisting of uranium 
and conversion services) for the nine nuclear reactors at its Rivne, Khmelnytskyy and South Ukraine nuclear power plants for 
the duration of the contract. These plants have combined requirements over the contract term of approximately 15.3 million 
KgU as UF6 (the equivalent of about 40.1 million pounds of uranium concentrate, or U3O8).  

20     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The contract will also contain an option for us to supply up to 100% of the fuel requirements for the six reactors at the 
Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant, currently under Russian control, should it return to Energoatom’s operation. If the option 
was exercised in 2024, the Zaporizhzhya plant would require roughly 10.4 million KgU as UF6 (the equivalent of approximately 
27.2 million pounds of U3O8) over the contract period.  

Industry prices 

Uranium ($US/lb U3O8)1 

Average annual spot market price  

Average annual long-term price 

Fuel services ($US/kgU as UF6)1 
Average annual spot market price 

  North America 

Europe 

Average annual long-term price  

  North America 

Europe 

2022 

2021 

CHANGE 

49.81 

49.75 

31.96 

31.96 

24.75 

24.94 

35.28 

36.81 

19.41 

18.99 

18.42 

18.42 

41% 

35% 

65% 

68% 

34% 

35% 

Note: the industry does not publish UO2 prices. 
1 Average of prices reported by TradeTech and UxC, LLC (UxC) 

On the spot market, where purchases call for delivery within one year, the volume reported by UxC for 2022 dropped 
significantly to 61 million pounds U3O8 equivalent, compared to 2021’s record breaking 102 million pounds U3O8 equivalent. 
Spot market volumes were significant in 2021 due to unplanned uranium demand from the Sprott Physical Uranium Trust, 
which contributed to the thinning of spot uranium supply. In 2022, total spot purchases by producers, junior uranium 
companies and financial funds was approximately 25 million pounds U3O8 equivalent, compared to approximately 53 million 
pounds U3O8 equivalent in 2021; these purchases in 2022 represented over 40% of spot market purchases compared to over 
50% in 2021. At the end of 2022, the average reported spot price was $47.68 (US) per pound, up $5.63 (US) per pound from 
the end of 2021. During the year, the uranium spot price ranged from a month-end low of $43.08 (US) per pound to a month-
end high of $58.20 (US) per pound, averaging $49.81 (US) for the year. 

Long-term contracts generally call for deliveries to begin more than two years after the contract is finalized, and use a number 
of pricing formulas, including base-escalated prices set at time of contracting and escalated over the term of the contract, and 
market referenced prices (spot and long-term indicators) determined near the time of delivery. The volume of long-term 
contracting reported by UxC for 2022 was about 113 million pounds U3O8 equivalent, up from about 72 million pounds U3O8 
equivalent in 2021. Higher volumes can be attributed in part to utilities turning their attention to securing their long-term needs 
as demand from financial funds further thinned the spot market and, in combination with higher interest rates, greatly reduced 
the ability for utilities to rely on carry trade activity, as well as heightened geopolitical tensions. The average reported long-term 
price at the end of the year was $52.00 (US) per pound, up $9.25 (US) from 2021. During the year, the uranium long-term 
price steadily increased from a month-end low of $42.88 (US) per pound in January to a high of $52.00 (US) per pound in 
November, averaging $49.75 (US) for the year.  

With the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, conversion prices in both the North American and European markets 
set record highs. The average reported spot price for North American delivery at the end of 2022 was $40.00 (US) per 
kilogram uranium as UF6 (US/kgU as UF6), up $23.90 (US) from the end of 2021. Long-term UF6 conversion prices for North 
American delivery finished 2022 at $27.25 (US/kgU as UF6), up $9.25 (US) from the end of 2021. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     21 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
URANIUM (US$/lb U3O8) AND CONVERSION (US$/kgU UF6) PRICES

Spot uranium price

Long-term uranium price

Spot conversion price (North America)

Long-term conversion price (North America)

$70

$60

$50

$40

$30

$20

$10

$0

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

Source: Average of prices reported from TradeTech and UxC

22     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
Our vision, values and strategy 

Our vision 

Our vision – “Energizing a clean-air world” – recognizes that we have an important role to play in enabling the vast reductions 
in global GHG emissions required to achieve a resilient net-zero carbon economy. We support climate action that is consistent 
with the ambition of the Paris Agreement and the Canadian government’s commitment to the agreement to limit global 
temperature rise to less than 2⁰C and we believe that this means the world needs to reach net-zero emissions by 2050 or 
sooner. The uranium we produce is used around the world in the generation of safe, carbon-free, affordable, base-load 
nuclear power.  

We believe we have the right strategy to achieve our vision and we will do so in a manner that reflects our values. For over 30 
years, we have been delivering our products responsibly. Building on that strong foundation, we remain committed to our 
efforts to transform our own, already low, greenhouse gas footprint in our ambition to reach net-zero emissions, while 
identifying and addressing the ESG risks and opportunities that we believe may have a significant impact on our ability to add 
long-term value for our stakeholders. 

Committed to our values 

Our values are discussed below. They define who we are as a company and are at the core of everything we do and help to 
embed ESG principles and practices as we execute on our strategy in pursuit of our vision. They are: 
  safety and environment 
  people 
  integrity 
  excellence 

SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT 

The safety of people and protection of the environment are the foundations of our work. All of us share in the responsibility of 
continually improving the safety of our workplace and the quality of our environment. 

We are committed to keeping people safe and conducting our business with respect and care for both the local and global 
environment. 

PEOPLE 

We value the contribution of every employee and we treat people fairly by demonstrating our respect for individual dignity, 
creativity and cultural diversity. By being open and honest, we achieve the strong relationships we seek. 

We are committed to developing and supporting a flexible, skilled, stable and diverse workforce, in an environment that: 
  attracts and retains talented people and inspires them to be fully productive and engaged 
  encourages relationships that build the trust, credibility and support we need to grow our business 

INTEGRITY 

Through personal and professional integrity, we lead by example, earn trust, honour our commitments and conduct our 
business ethically. 

We are committed to acting with integrity in every area of our business, wherever we operate. 

EXCELLENCE 

We pursue excellence in all that we do. Through leadership, collaboration and innovation, we strive to achieve our full potential 
and inspire others to reach theirs.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     23 

 
Our strategy 

We are a pure-play investment in the growing demand for nuclear energy. We are focused on providing nuclear fuel products 
and services across the fuel cycle to support the generation of clean, reliable, secure and affordable energy, and we are 
focused on taking advantage of the long-term growth we see coming in our industry. Our strategy is set within the context of 
what we believe is a transitioning market environment, where increasing populations, a growing focus on electrification and 
decarbonization, and concerns about energy security and affordability are expected to durably strengthen the long-term 
fundamentals for our industry. Nuclear energy must be a central part of the solution to the world’s shift to a low-carbon, climate 
resilient economy. It is an option that can provide the power needed, not only reliably, but also safely and affordably, and in a 
way that will help avoid some of the worst consequences of climate change. 

Our strategy is to capture full-cycle value by: 
  remaining disciplined in our contracting activity, building a balanced portfolio in accordance with our contracting framework 
  profitably producing from our tier-one assets and aligning our production decisions in all segments of our business with our 

contract portfolio and customer needs 

  being financially disciplined to allow us to execute on our strategy, take advantage of strategic opportunities and to self-

manage risk 

  exploring other emerging and non-traditional opportunities within the fuel cycle, which align with our commitment to 

responsibly and sustainably manage our business, contribute to the mitigation of global climate change, and help to provide 
energy security and affordability 

We expect our strategy will allow us to increase long-term value, and we will execute it with an emphasis on safety, people 
and the environment. 

URANIUM 

Uranium production is central to our strategy, as it is the biggest value driver of the nuclear fuel cycle and our business. We 
have tier-one assets that are licensed, permitted, long-lived, and are proven reliable with capacity to expand. These tier-one 
assets are backed up by idle tier-two assets and what we think is the best exploration portfolio that leverages existing 
infrastructure. 

We are focused on protecting and extending the value of our contract portfolio, on aligning our production decisions with our 
contract portfolio and market opportunities thereby optimizing the value of our lowest cost assets. We also prioritize 
maintaining a strong balance sheet, and on efficiently managing the company. We have undertaken a number of deliberate 
and disciplined actions, including a focus on digitization and automation to allow us to operate our assets with more flexibility. 

FUEL SERVICES 

Our fuel services segment is a source of profit and supports our uranium segment, providing our customers with access to 
refining and conversion services for both heavy-water and light-water reactors, and CANDU fuel and reactor component 
manufacturing for heavy-water reactors.  

As in our uranium segment, we are focused on securing new long-term contracts and on aligning our production decisions with 
our contract portfolio that will allow us to continue to profitably produce and consistently support the long-term needs of our 
customers. 

In addition, we are pursuing non-traditional markets for our UO2 and fuel fabrication business and have been actively securing 
new contracts for reactor components to support refurbishment of Canadian reactors.  

OTHER NUCLEAR FUEL CYCLE INVESTMENTS 

We continue to explore other opportunities across the nuclear fuel cycle. Expanding our participation in the fuel cycle is 
expected to complement our tier-one uranium assets and fuel services, creating new revenue opportunities and enhancing our 
ability to meet the increasing needs of existing and new customers for secure, reliable nuclear fuel supplies and services.  

24     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
In particular, we are interested in the second largest value driver of the fuel cycle, enrichment, and have a 49% interest in 
Global Laser Enrichment LLC (GLE). GLE is the exclusive licensee of the proprietary SILEX laser enrichment technology, a 
third-generation uranium enrichment technology. We are the commercial lead for the GLE project with a 49% interest and 
starting in 2023, an option to attain a majority interest of up to 75% ownership. See Global Laser Enrichment starting on page 
89 for more information. 

In addition, in October 2022, we announced the planned acquisition of a 49% interest in Westinghouse, a global provider of 
mission-critical and specialized technologies, products and services for light-water reactors across most phases of the nuclear 
power sector, in a strategic partnership with Brookfield Renewable.  See Proposed acquisition of Westinghouse starting on 
page 89 for more information on Westinghouse. 

Additionally, we have signed a number of non-binding arrangements to explore several areas of cooperation to advance the 
commercialization and deployment of small modular reactors in Canada and around the world. 

BUILDING A BALANCED PORTFOLIO 

The purpose of our contracting framework is to deliver value. Our approach is to secure a solid base of earnings and cash flow 
by maintaining a balanced contract portfolio that optimizes our realized price.  

Contracting decisions in all segments of our business need to consider the nuclear fuel market structure, the nature of our 
competitors, and the current market environment. The vast majority of run-rate fuel requirements are procured under long-term 
contracts. The spot market is thinly-traded where utilities buy small, discretionary volumes. This market structure is reflective 
of the baseload nature of nuclear power and the relatively small proportion of the overall operating costs the fuel represents 
compared to other sources of baseload electricity. Additionally, about half of the fuel supply typically comes from diversified 
mining companies that produce uranium as a by-product, or by state-owned entities with production volume strategies or 
ambitions to serve state nuclear power ambitions with low-cost fuel supplies. We evaluate our strategy in the context of our 
market environment and continue to adjust our actions in accordance with our contracting framework: 
  First, we build a long-term contract portfolio by layering in volumes over time. In addition to our committed sales, we will 
compete for end-user demand in the market where we think we can obtain value and, in general, as part of longer-term 
contracts. We will take advantage of opportunities the market provides, where it makes sense from an economic, logistical, 
diversification and strategic point of view. Those opportunities may come in the form of spot, mid-term or long-term 
demand, and will be additive to our current committed sales. 

  Once we have built a portfolio of long-term contracts, we decide how to best source material to satisfy that demand, 

planning our production in accordance with our contract portfolio and other available sources of supply. We will not produce 
from our tier-one assets to sell into an oversupplied spot market. 

  We do not intend to build an inventory of excess uranium. Excess inventory serves to contribute to the sense that 
uranium is abundant and creates an overhang on the market, and it ties up working capital on our balance sheet. 

  Depending on the timing and volume of our production, purchase commitments, and our inventory volumes, this means 

we may be active buyers in the market in order to meet our annual delivery commitments. Historically, prior to the 
supply curtailments that we began in 2016, we have generally planned our annual delivery commitments to slightly 
exceed the annual supply we expect to come from our annual production and our purchase commitments and have 
therefore relied on the spot market to meet a small portion of our delivery commitments. In general, if we choose to 
purchase material to meet demand, we expect the cost of that material will be more than offset by the volume of 
commitments in our sales portfolio that are exposed to market prices at the time of delivery over the long-term. 

In addition to this framework, our contracting decisions always factor in who the customer is, our desire for regional 
diversification, the product form, and logistical factors. 

Ultimately, our goal is to protect and extend the value of our contract portfolio on terms that recognize the value of our assets 
and pricing mechanisms that provide adequate protection when prices go down and exposure to rising prices. We believe 
using this framework will allow us to create long-term value. Our focus will continue to be on ensuring we have the financial 
capacity to execute on our strategy and self-manage risk.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     25 

 
LONG-TERM CONTRACTING 

Uranium is not traded in meaningful quantities on a commodity exchange. Utilities have historically bought the majority of their 
uranium and fuel services products under long-term contracts that are bilaterally negotiated with suppliers. The spot market is 
discretionary and typically used for one-time volumes, not to satisfy annual demand. We sell uranium and fuel products and 
services directly to nuclear utilities around the world as uranium concentrates, UO2 and UF6, conversion services, or fuel 
fabrication and reactor components for CANDU heavy water reactors. We have a solid portfolio of long-term sales contracts 
that reflect our reputation as a proven, reliable supplier of geographically stable supply, and the long-term relationships we 
have built with our customers. 

In general, we are active in the market, buying and selling uranium when it is beneficial for us and in support of our long-term 
contract portfolio. We undertake activity in the spot and term markets prudently, looking at the prices and other business 
factors to decide whether it is appropriate to purchase or sell into the spot or term market. Not only is this activity a source of 
profit, but it also gives us insight into underlying market fundamentals.  

We deliver the majority of our uranium under long-term contracts each year, some of which are tied to market-related pricing 
mechanisms quoted at time of delivery. Therefore, our net earnings and operating cash flows are affected by changes in the 
uranium price. Market prices are influenced by the fundamentals of supply and demand, market access and trade policy 
issues, geopolitical events, disruptions in planned supply and demand, and other market factors.  

The objectives of our contracting strategy are to: 
  optimize realized price by balancing exposure to future market prices while providing some certainty for our future earnings 

and cash flow 

  focus on meeting the nuclear industry’s growing annual uncovered requirements with our tier-one production  
  establish and grow market share with strategic and regionally diverse customers 

We have a portfolio of long-term contracts, each bilaterally negotiated with customers, that have a mix of base-escalated 
pricing and market-related pricing mechanisms, including provisions that provide exposure to rising market prices and also 
protect us when the market price is declining. This is a balanced and flexible approach that allows us to adapt to market 
conditions, put a floor on our average realized price and deliver the best value over the long term. 

This approach has allowed our realized price to outperform the market during periods of weak uranium demand, and we 
expect it will enable us to realize increases linked to higher market prices in the future. 

Base-escalated contracts for uranium (price at time of acceptance escalated over the term): use a pricing mechanism 
based on a term-price indicator at the time the contract is accepted and escalated to time of each delivery over the term of the 
contract.  

Market-related contracts for uranium: are different from base-escalated contracts in that the pricing mechanism may be 
based on either the spot price or the long-term price, and that price is as quoted at the time of delivery rather than at the time 
the contract is accepted. These contracts may provide for discounts, and typically include floor prices and/or ceiling prices, 
which are fixed at time of contract acceptance and usually escalate over the term of the contract. 

Fuel services contracts: the majority of our fuel services contracts use a base-escalated mechanism per kgU and reflect the 
market at the time the contract is accepted. 

OPTIMIZING OUR CONTRACT PORTFOLIO 

We work with our customers to optimize the value of our contract portfolio. With respect to new contracting activity, there is 
often a lag from when contracting discussions begin and when contracts are executed. With our large pipeline of business 
under negotiation in our uranium segment, and a value driven strategy, we continue to be strategically patient in considering 
the commercial terms we are willing to accept. We layer in contracts over time, with higher commitments in the near term and 
declining over time in accordance with utilities growing uncovered requirements. Much of our pending business is off-market 
but we are starting to see more on-market activity emerge. We remain confident that we can add acceptable new sales 
commitments to our portfolio of long-term contracts to underpin the ongoing operation of our productive capacity and capture 
long-term value. 

26     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Given our view that additional long-term supply will need to be incented to meet the growing demand for safe, clean, reliable, 
carbon-free nuclear energy, our preference today is to sign long-term contracts with market-related pricing mechanisms. 
Unsurprisingly, we believe our customers too expect prices to rise and prefer to lock-in today’s prices, with a fixed-price 
mechanism. Our goal is to balance all these factors, along with our desire for customer and regional diversification, with 
product form, and logistical factors to ensure we have adequate protection and will have exposure to rising market prices 
under our contract portfolio, while maintaining the benefits that come from having low-cost supply to deliver into a 
strengthening market.  

With respect to our existing contracts, at times we may also look for opportunities to optimize the value of our portfolio. In 
cases where there is a changing policy, operating, or economic environment, we may consider options that allow us to 
maintain our customer relationships and are mutually beneficial.  

CONTRACT PORTFOLIO STATUS 

We have commitments to sell approximately 180 million pounds of U3O8 with 34 customers worldwide in our uranium segment, 
and over 55 million kilograms as UF6 conversion with 31 customers worldwide in our fuel services segment.  

Customers – U3O8:  
Five largest customers account for 56% of commitments 

COMMITTED U3O8 SALES BY REGION

Americas 64%

Customers – UF6 conversion:  
Five largest customers account for 59% of commitments 

COMMITTED UF6 SALES BY REGION

Asia 19%

Europe 17%

Asia 7%

Americas 74%

Europe 19%

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     27 

 
 
 
 
MANAGING OUR CONTRACT COMMITMENTS  

We allow sales volumes to vary year-to-year depending on: 
  the level of sales commitments in our long-term contract portfolio  
  market opportunities  
  our sources of supply 

To meet our delivery commitments and to mitigate risk, we have access to a number of sources of supply, which includes 
uranium obtained from: 
  our productive capacity 
  purchases under our JV Inkai agreement, under long-term agreements and in the spot market 
  our inventory in excess of our working requirements 
  product loans  

OUR SUPPLY DISCIPLINE 

As spot is not the fundamental market, true value is built under a long-term contract portfolio and is measured over the full 
commodity cycle. Therefore, we align our uranium production decisions with our contract commitments and market 
opportunities to avoid carrying excess inventory or having to sell into an oversupplied spot market. In accordance with market 
conditions, and to mitigate risk, we evaluate the optimal mix of our production, inventory and purchases in order to satisfy our 
contractual commitments and in order to realize the best return over the entire commodity cycle. During a prolonged period of 
uncertainty, this could mean leaving our uranium in the ground. For the years 2016 through 2022, we left more than 130 
million pounds of uranium in the ground (100% basis) by curtailing our production. We purchased more than 60 million pounds 
including spot and long-term purchases and in 2018 we drew down our inventory by almost 20 million pounds. That totals over 
210 million pounds (100% basis) of uranium that were not available to the market. 

However, today we believe we are in the early stages of a uranium market transition, driven by the growing demand for 
nuclear energy and the increasingly undeniable conclusion that it is essential to the clean-energy transition and to energy 
security. In 2022 we secured 80 million pounds under long-term uranium contracts alone and as the market continues to 
transition, we expect to continue to place our uranium under long-term contracts and to meet rising demand with production 
from our best margin operations.  

With the improvements in the market, the new long-term contracts we have put in place, and a pipeline of contracting 
discussions, we have decided to adjust our production plan for McArthur River/Key Lake to produce 18 million pounds (100% 
basis) starting in 2024, and we plan to continue to operate Cigar Lake at its licensed capacity of 18 million pounds per year 
(100% basis) in 2024. At Inkai, production will continue to follow the 20% reduction planned by KAP until the end of 2023. 

With annual licensed capacity of 25 million pounds (100% basis) at McArthur River/Key Lake, we continue to have the ability 
to expand production from our existing assets, however some additional investment would be required. Any decision to 
expand production will be dependent on further improvements in the uranium market and our ability to secure the appropriate 
long-term contract homes for our unencumbered, in-ground inventory, demonstrating that we continue to responsibly manage 
our assets in accordance with our customers’ needs. In addition to our plans to expand uranium production, at our Port Hope 
UF6 conversion facility we are working on increasing production to 12,000 tonnes by 2024 to satisfy our book of long-term 
business for conversion services and customer demand, at a time when conversion prices are at historic highs.   

Our adjusted production plans for McArthur River/Key Lake and Cigar Lake are expected to significantly improve our financial 
performance by allowing us to source more of our committed sales from the lower-cost produced pounds and we will no longer 
be required to expense care and maintenance or operational readiness costs related to McArthur River/Key Lake to cost of 
sales. In addition, with conversion demand elevated, we have been successful in securing long-term sales commitments that 
will support increased UF6 production at Port Hope, which is expected to further improve its contribution to our financial 
results. Over the course of 2023, we will undertake all of the activities necessary to ensure we are operationally ready to 
achieve the 2024 production plan. However, this is not an end to our supply discipline. We expect to continue to adjust our 
production in accordance with our contract portfolio. This will remain our production plan until we see further improvements in 
the uranium market and contracting progress, once again demonstrating that we are a responsible fuel supplier. 

28     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
MANAGING OUR COSTS 

Production costs 

In order to operate efficiently and cost-effectively, we manage operating costs and improve plant reliability by prudently 
investing in production infrastructure, new technology, and business process improvements. Like all mining companies, our 
uranium segment is affected by the cost of inputs such as labour and fuel. 

2022 URANIUM OPERATING COSTS BY CATEGORY

Production Supplies 28%

Labor 41%

Contracted Services 31%

* Production supplies include reagents, fuel and other items. Contracted services include utilities and camp costs, air charters, mining and maintenance 

contractors and security and ground freight. 

Over the last number of years, the annual cash cost of production reflected the operating cost of mining and milling our share 
of Cigar Lake as this was our only operating site. With the restart of the McArthur River/Key Lake operations the annual cost of 
production will reflect a combined cost of all our operating uranium assets. See 2022 financial results by segment – Uranium 
starting on page 57 for more information. In 2023, our cash production costs may continue to be affected by inflation, the 
availability of personnel with the necessary skills and experience, supply chain challenges impacting the availability of 
materials and reagents, and our ability to ramp up to planned production at McArthur River/Key Lake. 

Operating costs in our fuel services segment are mainly fixed. In 2022, labour accounted for about 51% of the total. The 
largest variable operating cost is for zirconium, followed by anhydrous hydrogen fluoride, and energy (natural gas and 
electricity). 

We continue to look to adopt innovative and advanced digital and automation technologies to improve efficiency and 
operational flexibility, and to further reduce cost. 

Care and maintenance costs  

In 2023, we expect to incur between $50 million and $60 million in care and maintenance costs related to the suspension of 
production at our Rabbit Lake mine and mill, and our US operations. These operations are higher-cost and a restart is less 
certain. We continue to evaluate our options in order to minimize these costs. 

Purchases and inventory costs 

Our costs are also affected by the purchases of uranium and conversion services we make under long-term contracts and on 
the spot market.  

To meet our delivery commitments, we make use of our mined production, inventories, purchases under long-term contracts, 
purchases we make on the spot market and product loans. In 2023, the price for the majority of our purchases will be quoted 
at the time of delivery.  

The cost of purchased material may be higher or lower than our other sources of supply, depending on market conditions. The 
cost of purchased material affects our cost of sales, which is determined by calculating the average of all of our sources of 
supply, including opening inventory, production, and purchases, and adding royalties, selling costs, and care and maintenance 
costs. Our cost of sales could be impacted if we do not achieve our annual production plan, or we are unable to source 
uranium as planned, and we are required to purchase uranium at prices that differ from our cost of inventory.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     29 

 
 
Financial impact 

The growing demand for nuclear power due to its safety, clean energy, reliability, security and affordability attributes has 
contributed to increased demand for nuclear fuel products and services. As a result, we have seen price increases across the 
nuclear fuel value chain, which reflect the need for capacity increases to satisfy the projected growth.  

The deliberate and disciplined actions we took to curtail production and streamline operations over the past decade came with 
near-term costs like care and maintenance costs, operational readiness costs, and purchase costs higher than our production 
costs. However, we considered these costs as investments in our future.  

Today, thanks to our investments, and with our continued ability to secure new long-term sales commitments we believe we 
are well-positioned for growth. Our core growth is expected to come from our existing tier-one mining and fuel services assets. 
We do not have to build new capacity to pursue new opportunities. We have sufficient productive capacity to expand, a 
position we have not enjoyed in previous price cycles.  

And, with the planned joint acquisition of Westinghouse, we expect to be able to expand our growth profile by extending our 
reach in the nuclear fuel cycle at a time when there are tremendous tailwinds for the nuclear power industry. We are extending 
our reach with an investment in assets, that like ours, are strategic, proven, licensed and permitted, that are located in 
geopolitically favourable jurisdictions, and that we expect will be able to grow from their existing footprint. These assets are 
also expected to provide new opportunities for our existing suite of uranium and fuel services assets.  

We believe our actions and investments have helped position the company to self-manage risk and as we make the transition 
back to a tier-one run rate, we expect our financial performance to significantly improve, allowing us to execute on our strategy 
while rewarding our stakeholders for their continued patience and support of our strategy to build long-term value. 

CAPITAL ALLOCATION – FOCUS ON VALUE 

Delivering long-term value is a top priority. While we navigate by our investment-grade rating, we continually evaluate our 
investment options to ensure we allocate our capital in a way that we believe will: 
  sustain our assets and grow our core business in a manner that we expect will create sustainable long-term value   
  maintain a strong balance sheet that will allow us to execute on our strategy, take advantage of strategic opportunities and 

self-manage risk 

  allow us to sustainably execute on our dividend while considering the cyclical nature of our earnings and cash flow 

To deliver value, free cash flow must be productively reinvested in the business or, when appropriate, returned to 
shareholders, which requires good execution and disciplined allocation. Our decisions are based on the run rate of our 
business and other factors that we consider to be in the best interests of our stakeholders, not one-time events. Cash on our 
balance sheet that exceeds value-adding growth opportunities and/or is not needed to self-manage risk or for other reasons 
could be returned to shareholders. 

We start by determining how much cash we have to invest (investable capital), which is based on our expected cash flow from 
operations minus expenses we consider to be a higher priority, such as dividends and financing costs, and could include 
others. This investable capital can be used to take advantage of new strategic opportunities in line with our corporate 
development objectives and long-term strategy, reinvested in the core business of the company including managing the 
physical and transition risks and opportunities associated with changing climate conditions, or returned to shareholders. 

Reinvestment 

We have a multidisciplinary capital allocation committee that evaluates possible uses of investable capital. 

If a decision is made to reinvest capital in sustaining, capacity replacement, or growth, all opportunities are ranked and only 
those that meet the required risk-adjusted return criteria are considered for investment. We also must identify, at the corporate 
level, the expected impact on cash flow, earnings, and the balance sheet. All project risks must be identified, including the 
risks of not investing. Allocation of capital only occurs once an investment has cleared these hurdles. 

This may result in some opportunities being held back in favour of higher return investments and should allow us to generate 
the best return on investment decisions when faced with multiple prospects, while also controlling our costs. If there are not 
enough good investment prospects internally or externally, this may result in residual investable capital, which we would then 
consider returning to shareholders. 

30     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Return 

We believe in returning cash to shareholders under appropriate circumstances but are also focused on protecting the company 
and rewarding those shareholders who understand and support our strategy to build long-term value. If we have excess cash 
and determine the best use is to return it to shareholders, we can do that through a share repurchase or dividend—an annual 
dividend, one-time supplemental dividend or a progressive dividend. The decision to return capital and the type of return is 
evaluated by our board of directors with careful consideration of our cash flow, financial position, strategy, and other relevant 
factors including appropriate alignment with the cyclical nature of our earnings.  

In Action 

Until such time as we return to our tier-one cost structure, the objective of our capital allocation will be to ensure we have the 
financial capacity to execute on our strategy, including achieving production at McArthur River/Key Lake in accordance with 
our plan and the proposed acquisition of Westinghouse. We will continue to navigate by our investment-grade rating through 
close management of our balance sheet metrics, maintaining sufficient liquidity to meet our risk-mitigated working cash target 
and that allows us to pursue other value-adding opportunities.  

As the market continues to transition, we will focus on improving operational effectiveness across our operations, including the 
use of digital and automation technologies with a particular goal of reducing operating costs and increasing operational 
flexibility. Any opportunities will be rigorously assessed by our capital allocation committee before an investment decision is 
made. We will invest to allow us to execute our 2024 production plan.  

If we get clarity on our CRA dispute, which generates a one-time cash infusion, we may focus on the debt portion of our 
ratings metrics, depending on market opportunities. This may mean greater emphasis on reducing the debt on our balance 
sheet, including the additional debt contemplated with the proposed acquisition of Westinghouse. However, if we are able to 
continue increasing our portfolio of long-term contracts with acceptable pricing mechanisms, our priorities would be to invest in 
expanding production at our tier-one assets, and if warranted taking advantage of our existing tier-two assets and brownfield 
infrastructure, turning to value-adding growth opportunities including further investment in the nuclear fuel value chain and 
returning excess cash to shareholders. 

Shares and stock options outstanding 

At February 7, 2023, we had: 
  432,717,980 common shares and one Class B share outstanding 
  2,854,061 stock options outstanding, with exercise prices ranging from $11.32 to $19.30 

As announced on October 17, 2022, our $747.6 million (US) bought deal offering of common shares closed. The offering, 
including the exercise, in full, of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common shares, increased our outstanding 
shares by 34,057,250. See Proposed acquisition of Westinghouse beginning on page 89 for more information. 

Dividend 

In 2022, our board of directors declared a dividend of $0.12 per common share, which was paid December 15, 2022.  

The decision to declare an annual dividend by our board is reviewed regularly and will be based on our cash flow, financial 
position, strategy and other relevant factors including appropriate alignment with the cyclical nature of our earnings. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     31 

 
Our ESG principles and practices 

A key part of our strategy, reflecting our values 

We are committed to delivering our products responsibly. We integrate ESG principles and practices into every aspect of our 
business, from our corporate objectives and approach to compensation, to our overall corporate strategy, risk management, 
and day-to-day operations, and they align with our values. We seek to be transparent with our stakeholders, keeping them 
updated on the risks and opportunities that we believe may have a significant impact on our ability to achieve our strategic 
plan and add long-term value. We recognize the importance of integrating certain ESG factors, such as safety performance, a 
clean environment and supportive communities, into our executive compensation strategy as we see success in these areas 
as critical to the long-term success of the company.   

Our board of directors holds the highest level of oversight for our business strategy and strategic risks, including ESG matters 
and climate-related risks. Oversight of ESG and climate-related reporting and disclosure has been delegated by the board to 
the Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) committee of the board. We also have a multi-disciplinary ESG steering committee, 
chaired by our senior vice-president and chief corporate officer that includes representatives from across the organization 
whose role is to review our ESG governance and reporting, and our current approach to sustainability, against evolving trends. 
Additional information about our governance of ESG matters is included in our most recent ESG report.     

In an effort to continually evolve the robustness of our sustainability commitments and communications, starting in 2020, we 
aligned our ESG performance indicators with the ones recommended by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 
(SASB). In addition, we began addressing the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD) in our ESG report. In 2022, we continued to progress our work, conducting a gap analysis to identify how we could 
better align to TCFD recommendations. Findings from this work identified the need to undertake scenario analysis (physical 
and transition) to develop a robust evidence base for our climate strategy and pursue opportunities to financially quantify 
identified climate-related risks and opportunities where possible. See the discussion below regarding our climate change 
scenario analysis for more information. 

In July 2022, we published our 2021 ESG report. The report sets out our strategy and the policies and programs we use to 
govern and manage ESG issues that are important to our stakeholders. In addition to SASB and TCFD, the report provides 
key ESG performance indicator data based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Framework as well as some 
unique corporate indicators, to measure and report our performance on environmental, social and economic impacts in the 
areas we believe have a significant impact on our sustainability in the long-term and that are important to our stakeholders. 
This is our ESG report card to our stakeholders. You can find our report at cameco.com/about/sustainability. 

ENVIRONMENT 

We recognize and embrace our responsibility to manage our activities with care for the protection of environmental resources. 
Protection of the environment is one of our highest corporate priorities during all stages of our activities from exploration 
through development, operations, and decommissioning. Environmental stewardship is embedded in how we operate.  

We are guided by our safety, health, environment and quality policy and associated programs that are designed to minimize 
our impact on air, land, and water and to conserve the biodiversity of surrounding ecosystems. Across our operations, we 
comply with strict regulations and have systems in place to monitor and mitigate our potential impacts. In addition to our own 
environmental monitoring, we collaborate with local communities in northern Saskatchewan around our operations to give 
confidence to them that traditionally harvested foods remain safe to eat, and water remains safe to drink.  

32     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Climate change: Nuclear power is part of the solution 

We recognize the critical nature of the fight against climate change, and want our employees, customers, investors, and 
community partners near our operations to know we are committed to being an active and constructive partner in addressing 
this challenge. The reduction of carbon and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is important and necessary in Canada and 
around the world. Nuclear power must be a central part of the solution to the world’s shift to a low-carbon, climate-resilient 
economy. As one of the world’s largest producers of the uranium needed to fuel nuclear reactors, we believe there is a 
significant opportunity for us to be part of the solution to combat climate change. We enable vast emissions reductions that 
can be achieved through nuclear power and are committed to transforming our already low GHG emissions footprint to 
achieve our ambition of having net-zero emissions while delivering significant long-term business value. 

In accordance with our 2022 compensable corporate objectives, we undertook a planning process to outline our overarching 
low-carbon transition strategy. We identified the practical and achievable actions that we expect to take to decarbonize our 
operations and manage climate-related risks. In doing so, we are demonstrating our alignment with the ambitions of the Paris 
Agreement to, “limit global temperature rise to well below 2 degrees Celsius (°C), above pre-industrial levels, and to pursue 
efforts to limit global temperature rise even further to 1.5°C”. By extension, we are demonstrating our alignment with the 
Government of Canada’s commitment to the Paris Agreement in accordance with the Net Zero Accountability Act and resulting 
2030 Emissions Reduction Plan. 

We recognize that climate change, including shifts in temperature, precipitation and more frequent severe weather events 
could affect our operations in a range of possible ways. As part of our low-carbon transition planning, we completed a climate 
change scenario analysis to understand how projected long-term changing climate conditions could impact our employees, 
assets, and operations in northern Saskatchewan. We leveraged internal subject matter expertise with help from a third-party 
expert to complete the assessment. 

The physical risk assessment study was undertaken to deliver an initial forward-looking physical climate risk assessment 
across our four sites in northern Saskatchewan and identify possible risk management and adaptation options. The next steps 
for the northern Saskatchewan physical risk assessment are to embed the physical climate risk findings into Cameco’s internal 
risk processes and develop an adaptation action plan for each site in the study. We are targeting the completion of similar 
assessments for all our majority owned and operated facilities over the next five years. In 2023, we will focus our physical 
climate risk assessment efforts on our Ontario operations. 

We will continue to explore climate change projections for the areas where we operate and those critical to moving supplies 
and products through our value chain. We will use this information to identify where our existing climate-related acute and 
chronic risk management practices are expected to remain sufficient in the years to come and where adaptation and other 
enhancements may be required.  

When it comes to climate change, we have tracked and reported our GHG emissions for more than two decades. A summary 
of our activities to understand and mitigate the risks associated with climate change scenarios is reported to the board of 
directors on a regular basis in accordance with our Enterprise Risk Management program, including the mitigating controls and 
management actions taken to reduce these risks. 

In 2022, we developed the Energy and GHG Emissions Reductions Ideas Box that allows all employees to submit ideas to 
support us in reducing operational emissions. The Ideas Box also provides employees the opportunity to see key details from 
all decarbonization projects under investigation today.  

We have  also enjoyed some significant success in our efforts to reduce our energy use and GHG emissions to date. For 
example, at our Port Hope conversion facility, we have achieved a 28% reduction to peak power demand and more than $2.1 
million in annual energy savings with projects such as HVAC and compressed air system upgrades and lighting efficiency 
retrofits. At our northern Saskatchewan mining and milling operations, recent efforts have focused on the implementation of an 
Energy Management Information System (EMIS) in alignment with our larger digital transformation efforts. The EMIS improves 
our ability to visualize, monitor, and manage our energy use and emissions profile in real time. Ultimately, EMIS gives those 
operations the ability to identify where our highest impact emissions reduction opportunities exist and assurance that the 
actions we have taken are maintained over time.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     33 

 
Beyond these projects and initiatives, we have completed work to profile our emissions, enabling the identification of multiple 
high impact energy efficiency and emissions reductions opportunities including lighting retrofits, building envelope 
improvements, heat recovery projects, and the ability to explore alternative energy sources. Through these and other 
innovative decarbonization actions across efficiency, electrification, waste to value, carbon economy, and fuel switching 
themes – we expect to achieve a 30% absolute reduction from our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions level by 2030 from our 2015 
baseline as our first major milestone on the journey to achieve our ambition of being net zero. For our Scope 2 emissions 
(purchased power), achieving this target will largely be dependent on the success of SaskPower in decarbonizing its grid in 
accordance with its current plans. 

SOCIAL 

Our relationships with our workforce, Indigenous Peoples, and local communities are fundamental to our success. The safety 
and protection of our workforce and the public is our top priority in our assessment of risk and planning for safe operations and 
product transport. To deliver on our vision, we invest in programs to attract and retain a diverse and skilled workforce that 
better reflects the communities in which we operate and to increase the participation of underrepresented groups in trades and 
technical positions. We want to build a workforce that is dedicated to continuous improvement and shares our values. 

The importance of our workers and Indigenous Peoples working and living near our operations is exemplified by our ongoing 
commitment to help manage the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our workforce, their families and their communities. 

Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic 

We continue to closely monitor and adapt to the developments related to COVID-19. Throughout the pandemic, our priority 
has been to protect the health and well-being of our workers, including employees and contractors, their families, and their 
communities. 

The proactive decisions we made, and our ongoing efforts to monitor and manage the risk of COVID-19, to help ensure our 
workers are safe are consistent with our values. The health and safety of our workers, their families and their communities 
continues to be the priority in all our plans, which will align with the guidance of the relevant health authorities where we 
operate. 

GOVERNANCE 

We believe that sound governance is the foundation for strong corporate performance. Our diverse and independent board of 
directors’ primary role is to provide strategic direction and risk oversight in order to help the company achieve its vision of 
“energizing a clean-air world”. The board guides the company to operate as a sustainable business, to optimize financial 
returns while effectively managing risk, and to conduct business in a way that is transparent, independent, and ethical. 

The board has formal governance guidelines that set out our approach to governance and the board’s governance role and 
practices. The guidelines ensure we comply with all of the applicable governance rules and legislation in Canada and the US, 
conduct ourselves in the best interests of our stakeholders, and meet industry best practices. The guidelines are reviewed and 
updated regularly. 

Our corporate governance framework includes an established and recognized management system that describes the 
policies, processes and procedures we use to help us fulfill all the tasks required to achieve our objectives and strategy. It sets 
out our vision, values, and measures of success. It speaks to our strategic planning process, leadership alignment and 
accountability, compliance and assessment, people and culture, process identification and work management, risk 
management, communications and stakeholder support, knowledge and information management, change management, 
problem identification and resolution, and continual improvement. 

Risk and Risk Management 

Our board of directors oversees management’s implementation of appropriate risk management processes and controls. We 
have a Risk Policy that is supported by our formal Risk Management Program.   

34     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Our Risk Management Program involves a broad, systematic approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring, reporting and 
managing the significant risks we face in our business and operations, including consideration of ESG and climate-related 
risks that could impact our four measures of success. The program is based on the ISO 31000 Risk Management guidelines. 
ISO 31000 provides guidance on risk management activities with internationally recognized practices and provides sound 
principles for effective management and governance of risks. Our program applies to all risks facing the company, including 
climate-related risks. The program establishes clear accountabilities for employees throughout the company to take ownership 
of risks specific to their area and to effectively manage those risks. The program is reviewed annually to ensure that it 
continues to meet our needs. 

We use a common risk matrix throughout the company. Any risk that has the potential to significantly affect our ability to 
achieve our corporate objectives or strategic plan is considered an enterprise risk and is brought to the attention of senior 
management and the board. We continually update our risk profile by performing regular monitoring of risks across the 
organization. Regular monitoring helps us to properly manage risks and identify any new risks. Detailed risk reporting is 
provided on a quarterly basis to senior management and the board and its committees on the status of the mitigating and/or 
monitoring plans for each of the enterprise risks. Management also reviews monthly updates on the company’s progress in 
managing these risks. 

In addition to considering the other information in this MD&A, you should carefully consider the material risks discussed 
starting on page 4, under the heading Managing the risks, starting on page 67, and the specific risks discussed under each 
operation, advanced project, and other fuel cycle investment update in this document. These risks, however, are not a 
complete list of the potential risks our operations, advanced projects, or other investments face. There may be others we are 
not aware of or risks we feel are not material today that could become material in the future. 

We recommend you also review our annual information form, which includes a discussion of other material risks that could 
have an impact on our business. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     35 

 
Measuring our results 

Targets and Metrics: The link between ESG factors and executive pay 

Each year, we set corporate objectives that are aligned with our strategic plan. These objectives fall under our four measures 
of success: outstanding financial performance, safe, healthy and rewarding workplace, clean environment and supportive 
communities. Performance against specific targets under these objectives forms the foundation for a portion of annual 
employee and executive compensation. See our most recent management proxy circular for more information on how 
executive compensation is determined. 

Our targets for 2022 continue to reflect the operational strategic actions that we have taken. While we saw a significant 
improvement in our financial performance (earnings and cash flow) as our tier-one production increases and our average 
realized price reflects the improving market, our results still do not reflect our expected long-term run rate performance. As our 
long-term contract portfolio continues to grow and our tier-one production continues to ramp up, we believe that the strategic 
actions we have taken have helped to pave the way to stronger financial performance over time. Additionally, we will not 
compromise our commitment to safety, people and our environment. 

2022 OBJECTIVES1 

TARGET 

RESULTS 

OUTSTANDING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 

Earnings measure  

Achieve targeted adjusted net earnings. 

  adjusted net earnings was above the target 

Cash flow measure 

Achieve targeted cash flow from 
operations (before working capital 
changes). 

SAFE, HEALTHY AND REWARDING WORKPLACE 

Workplace safety 
measure 

CLEAN ENVIRONMENT  

Environmental 
performance 
measures 

Strive for no injuries at all Cameco-
operated sites. Maintain a long-term 
downward trend in combined employee 
and contractor total recordable injury 
rate while achieving targets on specified 
leading indicators. 

Achieve divisional environmental aspect 
improvement targets. 
Complete initial planning to outline our 
overarching low-carbon transition 
strategy 

SUPPORTIVE COMMUNITIES 

Stakeholder 
support measure 

Enhance the skill set of Residents of 
Saskatchewan’s North (RSN) for 
changing industrial environments 

  cash flow from operations was above the target 

  we did not achieve our target for TRIR 
  performance of the leading indicators was within the 

target range 

  performance on divisional environmental targets was 

below the targeted range  

  Completed initial planning and identified the practical 

and achievable actions that we expect to take to reduce 
carbon emissions at our operations and manage climate-
related risks 

  a RSN work placement program was developed and 

implemented with 50% female participation with support 
from external agencies, achieving results above the 
target 

1 Detailed results for our 2022 corporate objectives and the related targets will be provided in our 2023 management proxy circular prior to our Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders on May 10, 2023. 

36     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 objectives 

OUTSTANDING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 

 

Achieve targeted financial measures. 

SAFE, HEALTHY AND REWARDING WORKPLACE 

 

Improve workplace safety performance at all sites. 

CLEAN ENVIRONMENT 

 

Improve environmental performance at all sites. 

SUPPORTIVE COMMUNITIES 

 

Build and sustain strong stakeholder support for our activities. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     37 

 
Financial results 

This section of our MD&A discusses our performance, financial condition and outlook for the future. 

39  2022 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS  

48  OUTLOOK FOR 2023 

50  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

57  2022 FINANCIAL RESULTS BY SEGMENT   

57 ............... URANIUM 

59 ............... FUEL SERVICES  

60  FOURTH QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS  

60 ............... CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 

63 ............... URANIUM 

64 ............... FUEL SERVICES  

38     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
2022 consolidated financial results 

In the second quarter of 2022, we along with Orano acquired Idemitsu Canada Resources Ltd.’s 7.875% participating interest 
in the Cigar Lake Joint Venture. Our ownership stake in Cigar Lake now stands at 54.547%, 4.522 percentage points higher 
than it was prior to the transaction. Effective May 19, 2022, we have reflected our share or production and financial results 
based on this new ownership stake. 

HIGHLIGHTS 

DECEMBER 31 ($ MILLIONS EXCEPT WHERE INDICATED) 

Revenue 

Gross profit 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 

$ per common share (basic) 

$ per common share (diluted) 

Adjusted net earnings (loss) (non-IFRS, see page 40) 

$ per common share (adjusted and diluted) 

Cash provided by operations 

Net earnings 

2022 

 1,868 

 233 

 89 

 0.22 

 0.22 

 135 

 0.33 

 305 

2021 

 1,475 

 2 

 (103) 

 (0.26) 

 (0.26) 

 (98) 

 (0.25) 

 458 

CHANGE FROM 

2020 

2021 TO 2022 

 1,800 

 106 

 (53) 

 (0.13) 

 (0.13) 

 (66) 

 (0.17) 

 57 

27% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

(33)% 

The following table shows what contributed to the change in net earnings in 2022 compared to 2021 and 2020. 

($ MILLIONS) 
Net earnings (losses) - previous year 
Change in gross profit by segment 
(we calculate gross profit by deducting from revenue the cost of products and services sold, and depreciation and amortization (D&A), net of hedging benefits) 

2022 
(103) 

2021 
(53) 

2020 
74 

Uranium 

Fuel services 

Impact from sales volume changes 
Higher realized prices ($US) 
Foreign exchange impact on realized prices  
Higher costs 
change – uranium 
Impact from sales volume changes 
Higher realized prices ($Cdn) 
Higher costs 
change – fuel services 

Other changes 
Lower (higher) administration expenditures 
Lower (higher) exploration expenditures 
Change in reclamation provisions 
Change in gains or losses on derivatives 
Change in foreign exchange gains or losses 
Change in earnings from equity-accounted investments 
Redemption of Series E debentures in 2020 
Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidy 
Arbitration award in 2019 related to TEPCO contract 
Bargain purchase gain on CLJV ownership interest increase 
Higher (lower) finance income 
Change in income tax recovery or expense 
Other 
Net earnings (losses) - current year 

(6) 
328 
44 
(137) 
229 
(21) 
33 
(13) 
(1) 

(44) 
(3) 
(31) 
(86) 
74 
26 
- 
(21) 
- 
23 
30 
3 
(7) 
89 

(4) 
5 
(72) 
(55) 
(126) 
1 
23 
(2) 
22 

17 
3 
32 
(24) 
(14) 
32 
24 
(16) 
- 
- 
(4) 
15 
(11) 
(103) 

(4) 
25 
14 
(169) 
(134) 
(4) 
21 
(10) 
7 

(20) 
3 
(21) 
5 
33 
(9) 
(24) 
37 
(52) 
- 
(19) 
47 
20 
(53) 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     39 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Non-IFRS measures 

ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS 

Adjusted net earnings (ANE) is a measure that does not have a standardized meaning or a consistent basis of calculation 
under IFRS (non-IFRS financial measure). We use this measure as a more meaningful way to compare our financial 
performance from period to period. Adjusted net earnings is our net earnings attributable to equity holders, adjusted to better 
reflect the underlying financial performance for the reporting period. We believe that, in addition to conventional measures 
prepared in accordance with IFRS, certain investors use this information to evaluate our performance. Adjusted net earnings is 
one of the targets that we measure to form the basis for a portion of annual employee and executive compensation (see 
Measuring our results starting on page 36). 

In calculating ANE we adjust for derivatives. We do not use hedge accounting under IFRS and, therefore, we are required to 
report gains and losses on all hedging activity, both for contracts that close in the period and those that remain outstanding at 
the end of the period. For the contracts that remain outstanding, we must treat them as though they were settled at the end of 
the reporting period (mark-to-market). However, we do not believe the gains and losses that we are required to report under 
IFRS appropriately reflect the intent of our hedging activities, so we make adjustments in calculating our ANE to better reflect 
the impact of our hedging program in the applicable reporting period. See Foreign exchange starting on page 46 for more 
information. 

We also adjust for changes to our reclamation provisions that flow directly through earnings. Every quarter we are required to 
update the reclamation provisions for all operations based on new cash flow estimates, discount and inflation rates. This 
normally results in an adjustment to our asset retirement obligation in addition to the provision balance. When the assets of an 
operation have been written off due to an impairment, as is the case with our Rabbit Lake and US ISR operations, the 
adjustment is recorded directly to the statement of earnings as “other operating expense (income)”. See note 16 of our annual 
financial statements for more information. This amount has been excluded from our ANE measure. 

The bargain purchase gain that was recognized when we acquired our pro-rata share of Idemitsu Canada Resources Ltd.’s 
7.875% participating interest in the Cigar Lake Joint Venture has also been removed in calculating ANE since it is non-cash, 
non-operating and outside of the normal course of our business. The gain was recorded in the statement of earnings as part of 
“other income (expense)”. 

Adjusted net earnings is a non-IFRS financial measure and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial 
information prepared according to accounting standards. Other companies may calculate this measure differently, so you may 
not be able to make a direct comparison to similar measures presented by other companies.  

40     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
To facilitate a better understanding of these measures, the table below reconciles adjusted net earnings with our net earnings 
for the years ended 2022, 2021 and 2020. 

($ MILLIONS) 
Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 
Adjustments  

Adjustments on derivatives 
Adjustments on other operating expense (income) 
Adjustment to other income 
Income taxes on adjustments  

Adjusted net earnings (loss) 

 2022 
 89 

 76 
 26 
 (23) 
 (33) 
 135 

 2021 
 (103) 

 13 
 (8) 
 - 

 - 
 (98) 

 2020 
 (53) 

 (45) 
 24 
 - 
 8 
 (66) 

The following table shows what contributed to the change in adjusted net earnings (non-IFRS measure, see above) in 2022 
compared to the same period in 2021 and 2020. 

($ MILLIONS) 
Adjusted net earnings (losses) - previous year 
Change in gross profit by segment 
(we calculate gross profit by deducting from revenue the cost of products and services sold, and depreciation and amortization (D&A), net of hedging benefits) 

2022 
(98) 

2021 
(66) 

2020 
41 

Uranium 

Fuel services 

Impact from sales volume changes 
Higher realized prices ($US) 
Foreign exchange impact on realized prices  
Higher costs 
change – uranium 
Impact from sales volume changes 
Higher realized prices ($Cdn) 
Higher costs 
change – fuel services 

Other changes 
Lower (higher) administration expenditures 
Lower (higher) exploration expenditures 
Change in reclamation provisions 
Change in gains or losses on derivatives 
Change in foreign exchange gains or losses 
Change in earnings from equity-accounted investments 
Redemption of Series E debentures in 2020 
Canadian Emergency Wage Subsidy 
Arbitration award in 2019 related to TEPCO contract 
Higher (lower) finance income 
Change in income tax recovery or expense 
Other 
Adjusted net earnings (losses) - current year 

Average realized prices 

Uranium1 

$US/lb 
$Cdn/lb 

2022 

44.73 
57.85 

Fuel services 
1 Average realized foreign exchange rate ($US/$Cdn): 2022 – 1.29, 2021 – 1.26 and 2020 – 1.34. 

$Cdn/kgU 

32.92 

(6) 
328 
44 
(137) 
229 
(21) 
33 
(13) 
(1) 

(44) 
(3) 
3 
(23) 
74 
26 
- 
(21) 
- 
30 
(30) 
(7) 
135 

2021 

34.53 
43.34 

29.72 

(4) 
5 
(72) 
(55) 
(126) 
1 
23 
(2) 
22 

17 
3 
- 
34 
(14) 
32 
24 
(16) 
- 
(4) 
7 
(11) 
(98) 

(4) 
25 
14 
(169) 
(134) 
(4) 
21 
(10) 
7 

(20) 
3 
- 
9 
33 
(9) 
(24) 
37 
(52) 
(19) 
42 
20 
(66) 

CHANGE FROM 

2020 

2021 TO 2022 

34.39 
46.13 

27.89 

30% 
33% 

11% 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     41 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue 

The following table shows what contributed to the change in revenue for 2022. 

($ MILLIONS) 

Revenue – 2021 

Uranium 
  Higher sales volume 
  Higher realized prices ($Cdn) 

Fuel services 

Lower sales volume 

  Higher realized prices ($Cdn) 

Other 

Revenue – 2022 

1,475 

53 

372 

(72) 

33 

7 

1,868 

See 2022 Financial results by segment on page 57 for more detailed discussion. 

THREE-YEAR TREND 

In 2021, revenue decreased by 18% compared to 2020 due to a decrease in sales volume in the uranium segment and a 
decrease in the Canadian dollar average realized price. In our fuel services segment, revenue increased by 10% as a result of 
the increase in average realized price and sales volume. 

In 2022, revenue increased by 27% compared to 2021 due to an increase in the average realized price and sales volume in 
the uranium segment. In our fuel services segment, revenue decreased by 10% as a result of a decrease in sales volume 
partially offset by an increase in average realized price. See notes 18 and 29 in our annual financial statements for more 
information. 

SALES DELIVERY OUTLOOK FOR 2023 

For 2023 we have committed sales volumes in our uranium segment of between 29 and 31 million pounds. In general, we are 
active in the market, buying and selling uranium when it is beneficial for us and in support of our long-term contract portfolio. 

In our uranium and fuel services segments, our customers choose when in the year to receive deliveries. As a result, our 
quarterly delivery patterns and, therefore, our sales volumes and revenue can vary significantly. We expect the quarterly 
distribution of uranium deliveries in 2023 to be more heavily weighted to the first and fourth quarters as shown below. 
However, not all delivery notices have been received to date and the expected delivery pattern could change. Typically, we 
receive notices six months in advance of the requested delivery date. 

ANNUAL DELIVERY VOLUME DISTRIBUTION BY QUARTER

8

O
3
U
s
b

l

n
o

i
l
l
i

m

14

12

10

8

6

4

2

0

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023 (est)

Source: Cameco reports and estimates

42     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate expenses 

ADMINISTRATION 

($ MILLIONS)  
Direct administration1 

Stock-based compensation1 

Reversal (recovery) of fees related to CRA dispute 

2022 
 143 

 25 

 4 

2021 
 111 

 44 

 (27) 

CHANGE 
29% 

(43)% 

115% 

Total administration 
1 Direct administration and stock-based compensation are supplementary financial measures. They are components of administration expense as shown on the 

 172 

 128 

34% 

statement of earnings and calculated according to IFRS. 

Direct administration costs in 2022 were $32 million higher than in 2021 largely due to costs related to digital initiatives. 
Increased activities associated with the restart of operations at McArthur River and Key Lake, increased business travel and 
work associated with other business activities also resulted in increased costs.  

We recorded $25 million in stock-based compensation expenses in 2022, $19 million lower compared to 2021 due primarily to 
a reduction in the expense related to the executive performance share units as a result of a change in assumptions for vesting 
criteria. See note 25 to the financial statements. 

In 2021, we recorded $27 million as a reduction to administration costs to reflect the amounts owing to us for the recovery of 
costs as was awarded to us on the successful outcome in our transfer pricing dispute with Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). In 
2022, we adjusted this amount by $4 million to reflect the actual recovery for costs. See Transfer pricing dispute on page 44 
for more information. 

Administration outlook for 2023 

We expect direct administration costs to be between $160 million to $170 million. 

EXPLORATION 

Our 2022 exploration activities were focused primarily on Canada. Our spending increased from $8 million in 2021 to $11 
million in 2022 reflects higher planned expenditures.  

Exploration outlook for 2023 

We expect exploration expenses to be about $18 million in 2023. The focus for 2023 will be on our core projects in 
Saskatchewan. 

FINANCE COSTS 

Finance costs were $86 million, an increase from $77 million in 2021 due to higher costs related to the unwinding of the 
discount on our reclamation provisions. See note 20 to the financial statements. 

FINANCE INCOME 

Finance income was $37 million compared to $7 million in 2021 mainly due to higher interest rates and higher balances for 
cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in 2022. 

GAINS AND LOSSES ON DERIVATIVES 

In 2022, we recorded $73 million in losses on our derivatives compared to $13 million in gains in 2021. The increased losses 
reflect a weaker Canadian dollar compared to the US dollar in 2022 compared to 2021. See Foreign exchange on page 46 and 
note 27 to the financial statements. 

INCOME TAXES 

We recorded an income tax recovery of $4 million in 2022 compared to a recovery of $1 million in 2021 as a result of an 
income tax recovery in Canada that was offset by an expense in foreign jurisdictions. Equity accounted investees are included 
in Canadian earnings net of tax paid in the jurisdiction in which they operate. Foreign earnings include losses in some 
jurisdictions for which no future tax benefit has been recognized. 

In 2022, we recorded earnings of $100 million in Canada compared to earnings of $59 million in 2021, while in foreign 
jurisdictions, we recorded a loss of $15 million compared to a loss of $162 million in 2021.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     43 

 
($ MILLIONS)  
Net earnings (loss) before income taxes 
  Canada 
Foreign 

Total net earnings (loss) before income taxes 
Income tax expense (recovery) 
  Canada 
Foreign 

Total income tax recovery 
Effective tax rate 

TRANSFER PRICING DISPUTE 

Background 

2022 

 100 
 (15) 
 85 

 (8) 
 4 
 (4) 
(5)% 

2021 

 59 
 (162) 
 (103) 

 (2) 
 1 
 (1) 
1% 

Since 2008, CRA has disputed our marketing and trading structure and the related transfer pricing methodology we used for 
certain intercompany uranium sale and purchase agreements. 

For the years 2003 to 2014, CRA shifted Cameco Europe Limited’s income (as recalculated by CRA) back to Canada and 
applied statutory tax rates, interest and instalment penalties, and, from 2007 to 2011, transfer pricing penalties. In addition, for 
2014 to 2016, CRA has advanced an alternate reassessing position, see Reassessments, remittance and next steps below for 
more information. 

In September 2018, the Tax Court of Canada (Tax Court) ruled that our marketing and trading structure involving foreign 
subsidiaries, as well as the related transfer pricing methodology used for certain intercompany uranium sales and purchasing 
agreements, were in full compliance with Canadian law for the tax years in question (2003, 2005 and 2006). On June 26, 2020 
the Federal Court of Appeal (Court of Appeal) upheld the Tax Court’s decision.  

On February 18, 2021, the Supreme Court of Canada (Supreme Court) dismissed CRA’s application for leave to appeal the 
June 26, 2020 decision of the Court of Appeal. The dismissal means that the dispute for the 2003, 2005 and 2006 tax years is 
fully and finally resolved in our favour. Although not technically binding, there is nothing in the reasoning of the lower court 
decisions that should result in a different outcome for the 2007 through 2014 tax years, which were reassessed on the same 
basis. 

Refund and cost award 

The Minister of National Revenue issued new reassessments for the 2003 through 2006 tax years in accordance with the 
decision and in July 2021, refunded the tax paid for those years. Pursuant to a cost award from the courts, we are expecting a 
payment of approximately $13 million for disbursements which is in addition to the $10 million we received from CRA in April 
2021 as reimbursement for legal fees. 

Reassessments, remittances and next steps 

The Canadian income tax rules include provisions that generally require larger companies like us to remit or otherwise secure 
50% of the cash tax plus related interest and penalties at the time of reassessment. While we have received a refund for the 
amounts remitted for the 2003 through 2006 reassessments as noted above, CRA continues to hold $778 million ($295 million 
in cash and $483 million in letters of credit) we paid or secured for the years 2007 through 2013. For the 2014 and 2015 
reassessments, CRA did not require additional security to secure the tax debts they considered owing. We have requested the 
same treatment with respect to the 2016 reassessment. 

Following the Supreme Court’s dismissal of CRA’s application for leave to appeal, we wrote to CRA requesting reversal of 
CRA’s transfer pricing adjustments for 2007 through 2013 and the return of our $778 million in cash and letters of credit. Given 
the strength of the court decisions received, our request was made on the basis that the Tax Court would reject any attempt by 
CRA to defend its reassessments for the 2007 through 2013 tax years applying the same or similar positions already denied 
for previous years. Due to a lack of significant progress in response to our request, in October 2021, we filed a notice of 
appeal with the Tax Court for the years 2007 through 2013. We are asking the Tax Court to order the reversal of the CRA’s 
transfer pricing adjustment for those years and the return of our cash and letters of credit, with costs.   

44     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
In 2020, CRA advanced an alternate reassessing position for the 2014 tax year in the event the basis for its original 
reassessment, noted above, is unsuccessful. Subsequent to this, in 2021, we received a reassessment for the 2015 tax year 
and in late 2022, we received a reassessment for the 2016 tax year, both using this alternative reassessing position. The new 
basis of reassessment is inconsistent with the methodology CRA has pursued for prior years and we are disputing it 
separately. Our view is that this alternate methodology will not result in a materially different outcome from our 2014 to 2016 
filing positions. On October 12, 2022, we filed an appeal with the Tax Court for the years 2014 and 2015, and plan to file a 
notice of objection for 2016. 

We will not be in a position to determine the definitive outcome of this dispute for any tax year other than 2003 through 2006 
until such time as all reassessments have been issued advancing CRA’s arguments and final resolution is reached for that tax 
year. CRA may also advance alternative reassessment methodologies for years other than 2003 through 2006, such as the 
alternative reassessing position advanced for 2014 through 2016.   

Caution about forward-looking information relating to our CRA tax dispute  

This discussion of our expectations relating to our tax dispute with CRA and future tax reassessments by CRA is forward-looking information 
that is based upon the assumptions and subject to the material risks discussed under the heading Caution about forward-looking information 
beginning on page 2 and also on the more specific assumptions and risks listed below. Actual outcomes may vary significantly. 

Assumptions 
 

 

 

our entitlement and ability to receive the expected refunds 
and payments from CRA 
the courts will reach consistent decisions for subsequent tax 
years that are based on similar positions and arguments 
CRA will not successfully advance different positions and 
arguments that may lead to a different outcome for other tax 
years 

Material risks that could cause actual results to differ materially  
 

we will not receive the expected refunds and payments from 
CRA 
the possibility the courts may accept the same, similar or 
different positions and arguments advanced by CRA to reach 
decisions that are adverse to us for other tax years 
the possibility that we will not be successful in eliminating all 
double taxation 
the possibility that CRA does not agree that the court 
decisions for the years that have been resolved in Cameco’s 
favour should apply to subsequent tax years 
the possibility CRA will not return all or substantially all of the 
cash and security that has been paid or otherwise secured 
by Cameco in a timely manner, or at all 
the possibility of a materially different outcome in disputes for 
other tax years 
an unfavourable determination of the officer of the Tax Court 
of the amount of our disbursements award 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tax outlook for 2023 

Our consolidated tax rate is a blend of the statutory rates applicable to taxable income earned or tax losses incurred in 
Canada and in our foreign subsidiaries. Since 2017, our global marketing organization has been mainly consolidated in 
Canada in order to achieve efficiencies, resulting in more income earned in Canada. In addition, equity accounted investees 
are included in Canadian earnings net of tax paid in the jurisdiction in which they operate. We continue to expect our 
consolidated tax rate will trend toward the Canadian statutory rate in the longer term.  

The actual effective tax rate will vary from year-to-year, primarily due to the actual distribution of earnings among jurisdictions 
and differences between accounting earnings and income for tax purposes. In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development has proposed the introduction of rules that would impose a global minimum tax rate of 15%. The 
European Union has unanimously agreed to implement these rules and impose them into each country’s national law by the 
end of 2023, and we expect Canada to follow suit. If these tax laws are enacted or substantively enacted in any jurisdiction in 
which we operate, we may be subject to a minimum rate of 15% in that jurisdiction. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     45 

 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE 

The exchange rate between the Canadian dollar and US dollar affects the financial results of our uranium and fuel services 
segments.  

We sell the majority of our uranium and fuel services products under long-term sales contracts, which are routinely 
denominated in US dollars. Our product purchases are denominated in US dollars while our production costs are largely 
denominated in Canadian dollars. To provide cash flow predictability we hedge a portion of our net US/Cdn exposure (e.g. 
total US dollar sales less US dollar expenditures and product purchases) to manage shorter term exchange rate volatility.  

Our risk management policy is based on a 60-month period and permits us to hedge 35% to 100% of our expected net 
exposure in the first 12-month period. Our normal practice is to layer in hedge contracts over a three- to four-year period with 
the hedge percentage being highest in the first 12 months and decreasing hedge percentages in subsequent years. The 
portion of our net exposure that remains unhedged is subject to prevailing market exchange rates for the period. Therefore, 
our results are affected by the movements in the exchange rate on our hedge portfolio (explained below), and on the 
unhedged portion of our net exposure. A weakening Canadian dollar would have a positive effect on the unhedged exposure, 
and a strengthening Canadian dollar would have a negative effect. 

Impact of hedging on IFRS earnings 

We do not use hedge accounting under IFRS and, therefore, we are required to report gains and losses on all hedging activity, 
both for contracts that close in the period and those that remain outstanding at the end of the period. For the contracts that 
remain outstanding, we must treat them as though they were settled at the end of the reporting period (mark-to-market).  

However, we do not believe the gains and losses that we are required to report under IFRS appropriately reflect the intent of 
our hedging activities, so we make adjustments in calculating our ANE to better reflect the impact of our hedging program in 
the applicable reporting period. 

Impact of hedging on ANE 

We designate contracts for use in particular periods, based on our expected net exposure in that period. Hedge contracts are 
layered in over time based on this expected net exposure. The result is that our current hedge portfolio is made up of a 
number of contracts which are currently designated to net exposures we expect in 2023 and future years and we will recognize 
the gains or losses in ANE in those periods. 

For the purposes of ANE, gains and losses on derivatives are reported based on the difference between the effective hedge 
rate of the contracts designated for use in the particular period and the exchange rate at the time of settlement. This results in 
an adjustment to current period IFRS earnings to effectively remove reported gains or losses on derivatives that arise from 
contracts put in place for use in future periods. The effective hedge rate will lag the market in periods of rapid currency 
movement. See Non-IFRS measures on page 40. 

The table below provides a summary of our hedge portfolio at December 31, 2022. You can use this information to estimate 
the expected gains or losses on derivatives for 2023 on an ANE basis. However, due to the uncertainty around timing of 
closing of the proposed Westinghouse acquisition, we have not included the associated debt financing and cash outflows as 
part of the net US exposure for 2023, however our current USD cash position (which includes the equity issuance proceeds) is 
included. Additionally, if we add contracts to the portfolio that are designated for use in 2023 or if there are changes in the 
US/Cdn exchange rates in the year, those expected gains or losses could change. 

46     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Hedge portfolio summary 

DECEMBER 31, 2022 

($ MILLIONS) 

US dollar forward contracts 

Average contract rate 1 

US dollar option contracts 

Average contract rate range1 

Total US dollar hedge contracts 

Average hedge rate range 

($ millions) 

(US/Cdn dollar) 

($ millions) 

(US/Cdn dollar) 

($ millions) 

2023 

330 

1.29 

60 

AFTER 

2023 

 710 

1.31 

 10 

TOTAL 

 1,040 

1.30 

 70 

1.32 to 1.36 

1.20 to 1.24 

1.30 to 1.34 

390 

 720 

1.31 

 1,110 

1.30 

(US/Cdn dollar) 

1.29 to 1.30 

Hedge ratio2,3 
1 The average contract rate is the weighted average of the rates stipulated in the outstanding contracts. 
2 Hedge ratio is calculated by dividing the amount (in foreign currency) of outstanding derivative contracts by estimated future net exposures. 
3 Due to the uncertainty around timing of closing of the proposed Westinghouse acquisition, our hedge ratio is below our minimum as we have not included the 
financing or closing costs as part of the net US exposure. 

21% 

13% 

19% 

At December 31, 2022: 
  The value of the US dollar relative to the Canadian dollar was $1.00 (US) for $1.36 (Cdn), up from $1.00 (US) for $1.26 

(Cdn) at December 31, 2021. The exchange rate averaged $1.00 (US) for $1.30 (Cdn) over the year. 

  The mark-to-market position on all foreign exchange contracts was a $48 million loss compared to a $28 million gain at 
December 31, 2021. The mark-to-market position is a component of gain on derivatives as shown on the statement of 
earnings and calculated in accordance with IFRS. 

We manage counterparty risk associated with hedging by dealing with highly rated counterparties and limiting our exposure. At 
December 31, 2022, all of our hedging counterparties had a Standard & Poor’s (S&P) credit rating of A or better. 

For information on the impact of foreign exchange on our intercompany balances, see note 27 to the financial statements. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     47 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for 2023 

Our outlook for 2023 is beginning to reflect the transition of our cost structure back to a tier-one run rate, as we plan our 
production to satisfy the growing long-term commitments under our contract portfolio. With our plan to produce 18 million 
pounds per year (100% basis) at Cigar Lake, 18 million pounds per year (100% basis) at McArthur River/Key Lake beginning 
in 2024, and increase UF6 production at our Port Hope conversion facility, we expect to see continued improvement in our 
financial performance. 

From a cash perspective, we expect to generate strong cash flows. The amount of cash generated will be dependent on the 
timing and volume of production and the timing and magnitude of our purchasing activity. Therefore, our cash balances may 
fluctuate throughout the year.  

As in prior years, we will incur care and maintenance costs for the ongoing curtailment of our tier-two assets, which are 
expected to be between $50 million and $60 million. 

2022 outlook compared to actual 

Our actual results were largely in-line with the outlook provided in our third quarter MD&A. In 2022 we announced the restart of 
McArthur River/Key Lake. Throughout 2022, the operations transitioned to production. Based on the restart schedule, we set a 
production target for up to 1.4 million pounds (our share) for McArthur River/Key Lake. We achieved 0.8 million pounds (our 
share) production at McArthur River/Key Lake as we worked through some normal commissioning issues at the mill. At Cigar 
Lake, we achieved 9.6 million pounds production (our share), in line with expectations. 

As a result of the lower production from McArthur River/Key Lake and deferral and uncertainty related to the timing of receipt 
of our deliveries from JV Inkai, additional purchases were made. 

Capital expenditures for 2022 were $143 million, lower than our outlook of $150 to $175 million, as a result of the deferral of 
project work to 2023.  

See 2022 Financial results by segment on page 57 for details. 

2023 Financial outlook 

Production (owned and operated properties) 

Purchases 

Sales/delivery volume 

Revenue  

Average realized price 

Average unit cost of sales (including D&A) 

CONSOLIDATED 

URANIUM 

FUEL SERVICES 

- 

- 

- 

20.3 million lbs 

13 to 14 million kgU 

9 to 11 million lbs 

- 

29 to 31 million lbs 

11.5 to 12.5 million kgU 

$2,120 to 2,270 million 

$1,730 to 1,820 million 

$390-420 million 

- 

- 

$58.90/lb 

- 

$46.00-47.00/lb1 

$23.50-24.50/kgU2 

Direct administration costs 

$160-170 million 

- 

Exploration costs 

Capital expenditures 

- 

$18 million 

$150-175 million 

- 

- 

- 

- 

1 Uranium average unit cost of sales is calculated as the cash and non-cash costs of the product sold, royalties, care and maintenance and selling costs, divided 

by the volume of uranium concentrates sold. 

2 Fuel services average unit cost of sales is calculated as the cash and non-cash costs of the product sold, transportation and weighing and sampling costs, as 

well as care and maintenance costs, divided by the volume of products sold. 

We do not provide an outlook for the items in the table that are marked with a dash.  

The following assumptions were used to prepare the outlook in the table above: 
  Production – we achieve 20.3 million pounds of production (our share) in our uranium segment. If we do not achieve 20.3 

million pounds, the outlook for the uranium segment could vary.  

48     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
  Purchases – are based on the volumes we currently have commitments to acquire under contract in 2023, including our JV 

Inkai purchases, and it includes additional volumes we are required to purchase in order to meet the sales/delivery 
commitments we have under contract in 2023 and maintain a working inventory. It does not include any purchases that we 
may make as a result of the impact of any delays or disruptions to production for any reason, including disruptions caused 
by supply chain or transportation issues, or other challenges. 

  Our 2023 outlook for sales/delivery volume does not include sales between our uranium and fuel services segments.  
  Sales/delivery volume is based on the volumes we currently have commitments to deliver under contract in 2023. 
  Uranium revenue and average realized price are based on a uranium spot price of $47.75 (US) per pound (the UxC spot 

price on December 26, 2022), a long-term price indicator of $51.00 (US) per pound (the UxC long-term indicator on 
December 26, 2022) and an exchange rate of $1.00 (US) for $1.30 (Cdn) 

  Uranium average unit cost of sales (including D&A) is based on the expected unit cost of sales for produced material, the 
planned purchases noted in the outlook at an anticipated average purchase price of about $56.20 (Cdn) per pound and 
includes care and maintenance costs of between $50 million and $60 million. We expect overall unit cost of sales could 
vary if there are changes in production and purchase volumes or the mix between spot and long-term purchases, uranium 
spot prices, and/or care and maintenance costs in 2023. 

Our 2023 financial outlook is presented on the basis of equity accounting for our minority ownership interest in JV Inkai. Under 
equity accounting, our share of the profits earned by JV Inkai on the sale of its production will be included in “income from 
equity-accounted investees” on our consolidated statement of earnings. Our share of production will be purchased at a 
discount to the spot price and included at this value in inventory. In addition, JV Inkai capital is not included in our outlook for 
capital expenditures. Please see Inkai Planning for the future on pages 79 and 80 for more details. 

The following table shows how changes in the exchange rate or uranium prices can impact our outlook. We currently are 
holding excess USD, largely from the proceeds of the October 2022 share issuance, to partially finance the proposed 
acquisition of Westinghouse, as such our adjusted net earnings will have a higher sensitivity to exchange rate movements. For 
more details on the impact of exchange rates, also see Foreign exchange on page 46. 

FOR 2023 ($ MILLIONS) 

Uranium spot and long-term price1 

Value of Canadian dollar vs US dollar 

CHANGE 
$5(US)/lb increase 
$5(US)/lb decrease 
One cent decrease in CAD 
One cent increase in CAD 

REVENUE 
 63 
 (77) 
 15 
 (15) 

ANE 
 41 
 (51) 
 14 
 (14) 

CASH FLOW 
 8 
 (21) 
 7 
 (7) 

1 Assuming change both UxC spot price $47.75 (US) per pound on December 26, 2022 and the UxC long-term price indicator $51.00 (US) per pound on 

IMPACT ON: 

December 26, 2022. 

Price sensitivity analysis: uranium segment 

As discussed under the Long-term contracting section on page 26, our portfolio of long-term contracts includes a mix of base-
escalated and market-related contracts. Each contract is bilaterally negotiated with the customer and is subject to terms of 
confidentiality. Therefore, to help understand how the pricing under our current portfolio of commitments is expected to react at 
various spot prices at December 31, 2022, we have constructed the table below. 

The table is based on the pricing terms under the long-term commitments in our contract portfolio that have been finalized as 
at December 31, 2022, it does not include the contracts that have been accepted but are still subject to contract finalization. 
Based on the terms and volumes under those commitments, the table is designed to indicate how our average realized price 
will react under various spot price assumptions at a point in time. At year-end, the annual average sales commitments under 
our contract portfolio at December 31, 2022 are 21 million pounds per year, with commitment levels in 2023 through 2025 
higher than the average and in 2026 and 2027 lower than the average. As the market improves, we expect to continue to layer 
in volumes capturing greater upside using market-related pricing mechanisms. In this table, we do not consider the impact on 
our average realized price of volumes under negotiation and those not yet finalized under contract. In other words, the prices 
shown in the table would only be realized if the contract portfolio remained exactly as it was on December 31, 2022, using the 
following assumptions: 
  The uranium price remains fixed at a given spot level for each annual period shown 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     49 

 
 
 
  Deliveries based on commitments under finalized contracts include best estimates of the expected deliveries under contract 

terms 

  To reflect escalation mechanisms contained in existing contracts, the long-term US inflation rate of 2% is used, for modeling 

purposes only 

It is important to note, that the table is not a forecast of prices we expect to receive. The prices we actually realize will be 
different from the prices shown in the table. We intend to update this table each quarter in our MD&A to reflect deliveries made 
and changes to our contract portfolio. As a result, we expect the table to change from quarter to quarter. 

Expected realized uranium price sensitivity under various spot price assumptions at December 31, 2022 

(rounded to the nearest $1.00) 

SPOT PRICES  
($US/lb U3O8) 
2023 

2024 

2025 

2026 
2027 

$20 
 35 

 33 

 35 

 36 
 37 

$40 
 41 

 40 

 42 

 42 
 43 

$60 
 49 

 49 

 52 

 54 
 55 

$80 
 53 

 54 

 58 

 62 
 65 

$100 
 56 

 57 

 61 

 66 
 70 

$120 
 58 

 58 

 63 

 70 
 73 

$140 
 59 

 59 

 64 

 73 
 76 

Liquidity and capital resources 

Our financial objective is to ensure we have the cash and debt capacity to fund our operating activities, investments and other 
financial obligations in order to execute our strategy and to allow us to self-manage risk. We have a number of alternatives to 
fund future capital requirements, including using our operating cash flow, drawing on our existing credit facilities, entering new 
credit facilities, and raising additional capital through debt or equity financings. We are always considering our financing 
options so we can take advantage of favourable market conditions when they arise. In addition, due to the deliberate cost 
reduction measures we have implemented, we have continued to have positive cash from operations which has added to our 
cash balance. And with the proceeds from the October share issuance, which are expected to help finance the proposed 
acquisition of Westinghouse, we have significant cash balances. 

As announced on October 11, 2022, we have entered into a strategic partnership with Brookfield Renewable and its 
institutional partners to acquire Westinghouse. Permanent financing is expected to be a mix of capital sources (cash, debt and 
equity), designed to preserve the company’s balance sheet and ratings strength while maintaining our liquidity. Closing is 
anticipated in the second half of 2023. Please see Proposed acquisition of Westinghouse starting on page 89 for further 
details.  

Following the announcement, we undertook a $650 million (US) bought deal offering of common shares, with an underwriter 
option to purchase additional shares. The offering closed on October 17, 2022 with gross proceeds to us of approximately 
$747.6 million (US), including the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common shares. 
Concurrently with the execution of the acquisition agreement, we secured commitments for a $1 billion (US) bridge loan facility 
and $600 million (US) in term loans. As of the closing of the bought deal offering, the bridge loan facility was reduced to $280 
million (US) by the net proceeds received from the offering. The facilities will remain undrawn until closing of the acquisition. 
The bridge facility, if funded, will mature 364 days after the acquisition closing date, and the term loans consisting of two 
tranches $300 million (US) each, are expected to mature two years and three years after the acquisition closing. 

At the end of 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.3 billion, while our total debt 
amounted to $997 million. Our cash balances are expected to be largely utilized for the close of the proposed acquisition of 
Westinghouse. Depending on the timing of the close, expected in the second half of 2023, cash balances could be lower or 
higher than expected. 

50     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
We have large, creditworthy customers that continue to need our nuclear fuel products and services even during weak 
economic conditions, and we expect the contract portfolio we have built to continue to provide a solid revenue stream. In our 
uranium segment, from 2023 through 2027, we have commitments to deliver an average of 21 million pounds per year, with 
commitment levels in 2023 through 2025 higher than the average and in 2026 and 2027 lower than the average. 

We expect increased production at McArthur River/Key Lake will be positive for cash flow. It will allow us to source more of our 
committed sales from lower-cost produced pounds and we will no longer be required to expense operational readiness costs 
directly to cost of sales. However, cash flow from operations for 2023 will be dependent on the timing and volume of 
production and the timing and magnitude of our purchasing activity. 

We expect our cash balances and operating cash flows to meet our capital requirements during 2023. Depending on the 
timing of the close of the Westinghouse transaction, and the final financing mix of capital sources, cash balances could be 
lower or higher than expected. 

With the Supreme Court’s dismissal of CRA’s application for leave, the dispute of the 2003 through 2006 tax years are fully 
and finally resolved in our favour. Furthermore, we are confident the courts would reject any attempt by CRA to utilize the 
same or similar positions and arguments for the other tax years currently in dispute (2007 through 2014) and believe CRA 
should return the $778 million in cash and letters of credit we have been required to pay or otherwise secure. As such, we 
have filed notice of appeal to the Tax Court however, timing of any further payments is uncertain. See page 44 for more 
information.  

Financial condition 

Cash position ($ millions) 
(cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments) 
Cash provided by operations ($ millions) 
(net cash flow generated by our operating activities after changes in working capital) 
Cash provided by operations/net debt1 
(net debt is total consolidated debt, less cash position) 
Net debt/total capitalization1 
(total capitalization is net debt and equity) 
1 As at December 31, 2022, Cameco was negative net debt due to our large cash position. 

Credit ratings 

2022 

2,282 

305 

-24% 

-28% 

2021 

1332 

458 

-136% 

-7% 

The credit ratings assigned by external ratings agencies are important as they impact our ability to raise capital at competitive 
pricing to support our business operations and execute our strategy.  

Third-party ratings for our commercial paper and senior debt as of February 8, 2023: 

SECURITY 

Commercial paper 

Senior unsecured debentures 

DBRS 

R-2 (middle) 

BBB 

S&P 

A-3 

BBB- 

Rating trend / rating outlook 
1  On May 28, 2020, DBRS changed Cameco’s rating trend to stable. On May 26, 2021 and May 27, 2022, DBRS confirmed the rating and outlook. Currently our 

Stable1 

Stable2 

rating is under review following the announcement of the proposed acquisition of Westinghouse 

2  On February 16, 2022, S&P revised Cameco’s rating outlook to stable and affirmed the rating. 

The rating agencies may revise or withdraw these ratings if they believe circumstances warrant. The rating trend/outlook 
represents the rating agency’s assessment of the likelihood and direction that the rating could change in the future. 

A change in our credit ratings could affect our cost of funding and our access to capital through the capital markets. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     51 

 
Liquidity 

($ MILLIONS) 
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments at beginning of year 
Cash from operations 
Investment activities 

  Additions to property, plant and equipment and acquisitions 
  Other investing activities 

Financing activities 
  Interest paid 
  Issue of shares 
  Dividends 
  Other financing activities 

Exchange rate on changes on foreign currency cash balances 
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments at end of year 

CASH FROM OPERATIONS 

2022 
1,332 
305 

(245) 
8 

(39) 
963 
(52) 
(3) 
13 
2,282 

2021 
943 
458 

(99) 
79 

(39) 
27 
(32) 
(3) 
(2) 
1,332 

Cash from operations was lower than in 2021 due largely to an increase in working capital requirements which was the result 
of increased purchasing activity. Purchases in 2022 were 18.3 million pounds compared to 11.1 million pounds in 2021. Not 
including working capital requirements, our operating cash flows in the year were up $253 million. See note 24 to the financial 
statements. 

INVESTING ACTIVITIES 

Cash used in investing includes acquisitions and capital spending. 

Capital spending 

We classify capital spending as sustaining, capacity replacement or growth. As a mining company, sustaining capital is the 
money we spend to keep our facilities running in their present state, which would follow a gradually decreasing production 
curve, while capacity replacement capital is spent to maintain current production levels at those operations. Growth capital is 
money we invest to generate incremental production, and for business development. We have a capital allocation process to 
approve our capital spend. See Capital Allocation beginning on page 30 for more information. 

2022 ACTUAL 

2023 PLAN 

62 
39 
2 
103 

40 
- 
40 

- 
- 
- 
143 

55-60 
40-45 
5-10 
100-115 

40-50 
- 
40-50 

0-5 
5-10 
5-15 
150-175 

CAMECO’S SHARE ($ MILLIONS) 

Sustaining capital 
  Uranium 

Fuel services 

  Other 
Total sustaining capital 
Capacity replacement capital 
  Uranium 

Fuel services 

Total capacity replacement capital 
Growth capital 
  Uranium 

Fuel services 
Total growth capital 
Total sustaining, capital and growth 

52     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for investing activities 

CAMECO’S SHARE ($ MILLIONS) 

Total uranium & fuel services  

Sustaining capital 

  Capacity replacement capital 
  Growth capital 

2023 PLAN 

2024 PLAN 

2025 PLAN 

150-175 

105-115 
40-50 

5-10 

150-200 

120-140 
25-45 

5-15 

100-150 

70-90 
25-45 

5-15 

Our 2023, 2024 and 2025 capital spending estimates assume that in 2024, we begin producing 18 million pounds (100% 
basis) per year at McArthur River/Key Lake, continue producing 18 million pounds (100% basis) per year at Cigar Lake, and 
increase annual production at our UF6 conversion facility to 12,000 tonnes per year.  

Our estimate for capital spending in 2023 has been increased to between $150 million and $175 million (previously between 
$100 million and $150 million) due to the capital required to meet production targets and the rescheduling of some 
expenditures planned in 2022 to 2023. 

Capital expenditures for JV Inkai are expected to be covered by JV Inkai cash flows in 2023 and are included in our overall 
equity investment. 

Major capital expenditures in 2023 include: 
  Fuel services – capital required to increase production at our UF6 conversion facility and continued work on our Vision in 

Motion project 

  Cigar Lake – underground development and necessary ground freezing infrastructure to meet production targets 
  McArthur River/Key Lake – capital required to produce 18 million pounds per year (100% basis) starting in 2024 
  Our investment in digital and automation technologies 

This information regarding currently expected capital expenditures for future periods is forward-looking information and is 
based upon the assumptions and subject to the material risks discussed on pages 4 to 6. Our actual capital expenditures for 
future periods may be significantly different. 

FINANCING ACTIVITIES  

Cash from financing includes borrowing and repaying debt, and other financial transactions including paying dividends and 
providing financial assurance. 

Long-term contractual obligations 

DECEMBER 31 ($ MILLIONS) 
Long-term debt 

Interest on long-term debt 

Provision for reclamation 
Provision for waste disposal 

Other liabilities 

Capital commitments 

Total 

2023 
- 

38 

47 
2 

29 

57 

173 

2024 AND 

2026 AND 

2028 AND 

2025 
500 

44 

69 
4 

36 

- 

653 

2027 
400 

34 

95 
3 

6 

- 

538 

BEYOND 
100 

76 

1,145 
- 

64 

- 

1,385 

TOTAL 
1,000 

192 

1,356 
9 

135 

57 

2,749 

We have contractual capital commitments of approximately $57 million at December 31, 2022. Certain of the contractual 
commitments may contain cancellation clauses; however, we disclose the commitments based on management’s intent to fulfil 
the contracts. 

We have sufficient borrowing capacity with available unsecured lines of credit totalling about $2.7 billion, which include the 
following: 
  A $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that matures October 1, 2026. Each calendar year, upon mutual agreement, 

the facility can be extended for an additional year. We may increase the revolving credit facility above $1.0 billion, by 
increments of no less than $50 million, up to a total of $1.25 billion. The facility ranks equally with all of our other senior 
debt. At December 31, 2022, there were no amounts outstanding under this facility.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     53 

 
 
  At December 31, 2022, we had approximately $1.6 billion outstanding in financial assurances provided by various financial 
institutions. We use these facilities mainly to provide financial assurance for future decommissioning and reclamation of our 
operating sites, for our obligations relating to the CRA dispute, and as overdraft protection. 

In total we have $1.0 billion in senior unsecured debentures outstanding: 
  $500 million bearing interest at 4.19% per year, maturing on June 24, 2024 
  $400 million bearing interest at 2.95% per year, maturing on October 21, 2027 
  $100 million bearing interest at 5.09% per year, maturing on November 14, 2042 

We have secured $600 million (US) in term loan facilities and $280 million (US) under a bridge loan facility to help finance the 
proposed acquisition of Westinghouse. The debt facilities will remain undrawn until closing of the acquisition. The bridge 
facility, if funded, will mature 364 days after the acquisition closing date, and the term loans consisting of two tranches of $300 
million (US) each, are expected to mature two years and three years after the acquisition closes. Please see Proposed 
acquisition of Westinghouse on page 89 for more information. These facilities have not been included in the long-term 
contractual obligation table due to the uncertainty around timing of the close of the acquisition and how much will be funded 
under these facilities when it closes. 

Debt covenants 

Our revolving credit facility includes the following financial covenants: 
  our funded debt to tangible net worth ratio must be 1:1 or less 
  other customary covenants and events of default  

Funded debt is total consolidated debt less non-recourse debt, $100 million in letters of credit, cash and cash equivalents and 
short-term investments. 

Not complying with any of these covenants could result in accelerated payment and termination of our revolving credit facility. 
At December 31, 2022, we complied with all covenants, and we expect to continue to comply in 2023. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

We had three kinds of off-balance sheet arrangements at the end of 2022: 
  purchase commitments 
  financial assurances 
  other arrangements 

Purchase commitments 

We make purchases under long-term contracts where it is beneficial for us to do so and to support our long-term contract 
portfolio. The following table is based on our purchase commitments in our uranium and fuel services segments at December 
31, 20222 but does not include purchases of our share of Inkai production. These commitments include a mix of fixed-price 
and market-related contracts. Actual payments will be different as a result of changes to our purchase commitments and, in 
the case of contracts with market-related pricing, the market prices in effect at the time of delivery. We will update this table as 
required in our MD&A to reflect material changes to our purchase commitments and changes in the prices used to estimate 
our commitments under market-related contracts. 

DECEMBER 31, 2022 ($ MILLIONS) 

2023 

2025 

2027 

BEYOND 

TOTAL 

2024 AND 

2026 AND 

2028 AND 

Purchase commitments1,2 
501 
1  Denominated in US dollars and Japanese yen, converted from US dollars to Canadian dollars at the rate of 1.30 and from Japanese yen to Canadian dollars at 

154 

232 

17 

98 

the rate of $0.01. 

2  These amounts have been adjusted for any additional purchase commitments that we have entered into since December 31, 2022 but does not include 

deliveries taken under contract since December 31, 2022. 

We have commitments of $501 million (Cdn) for the following: 
  approximately 9.2 million pounds of U3O8 equivalent from 2023 to 2028 
  approximately 0.4 million kgU as UF6 in conversion services from 2023 to 2024 

54     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
  
  about 0.6 million Separative Work Units (SWU) of enrichment services to meet existing forward sales commitments under 

agreements with a non-Western supplier 

The suppliers do not have the right to terminate agreements other than pursuant to customary events of default provisions. 

Financial assurances 

We use standby letters of credit and surety bonds mainly to provide financial assurance for the decommissioning and 
reclamation of our mining and conversion facilities  

Once we have permanently stopped mining and processing activities at an operating site, we are required to decommission 
the site to the satisfaction of the regulators. We have developed preliminary decommissioning plans for our operating sites and 
use them to estimate our decommissioning costs. Regulators review and accept our preliminary decommissioning plans on a 
regular basis. As the site approaches or goes into decommissioning, regulators review the detailed decommissioning plans. 
This can result in further regulatory process, as well as additional requirements, costs and financial assurances. 

We have submitted updates to all Saskatchewan operations’ Preliminary Decommissioning Plan (PDP) and Preliminary 
Decommissioning Cost Estimate (PDCE) documents in accordance with the five-year timeline specified in the regulations. 
Upon acceptance of the PDP and PDCE documents by the Saskatchewan Ministry of Environment and Canadian Nuclear 
Safety Commission (CNSC) staff, a formal Commission proceeding will be required for final approval of the PDP and PDCE by 
the Commission. All Saskatchewan mining operations have received the necessary approvals for the current PDP and PDCE 
and all required financial assurances are in place. 

The PDP and PDCE for the Blind River refinery were revised in 2020. The CNSC approved the PDCE in February 2022 and 
the financial assurance was updated in March 2022. The Cameco Fuel Manufacturing PDP and PDCE were revised in 2021, 
and the revised PDCE was approved by the Commission in February 2022 and the financial assurance was updated in March 
2022. The PDP and PDCE for the Port Hope conversion facility were revised in 2022 and submitted to CNSC staff in 
September 2022 and are currently under review by CNSC staff. Once accepted by staff, the PDCE will be considered by the 
Commission, after which the financial assurance will be updated.   

For Smith Ranch-Highland, the 2022 surety was approved and the credit instruments are being reviewed by the State of 
Wyoming. For Crow Butte, the 2022 annual update was submitted to the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission and 
Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality in September 2022. This most recent surety has been approved by the state 
and is still waiting for approval from the NRC.       

At the end of 2022, our estimate of total decommissioning and reclamation costs was $1.36 billion. This is the undiscounted 
value of the obligation and is based on our current operations. We had accounting provisions of $1.06 billion at the end of 
2022 (the present value of the $1.36 billion). Regulatory approval is required prior to beginning decommissioning. Since we 
expect to incur most of these expenditures at the end of the useful lives of the operations they relate to, and none of our 
assets have approval for decommissioning, our expected costs for decommissioning and reclamation for the next five years 
are not material.  

We had a total of about $1.04 billion in financial assurances supporting our reclamation liabilities at the end of 2022. All of our 
North American operations have financial assurances in place in connection with our preliminary plans for decommissioning of 
the sites. 

We are also providing letters of credit until the CRA dispute is resolved.  

Our financial assurances renew automatically on an annual basis, unless otherwise advised by the issuing institution. At 
December 31, 2022 our financial assurances totaled $1.6 billion, the same as at December 31, 2021.  

Other arrangements 

We have arranged for standby product loan facilities with various counterparties. The arrangements allow us to borrow up to 
2.4 million kgU of UF6 conversion services and 2.8 million pounds of U3O8 over the period 2020 to 2026 with repayment in kind 
up to December 31, 2026. Under the loan facilities, standby fees of up to 1% are payable based on the market value of the 
facilities and interest is payable on the market value of any amounts drawn at rates ranging from 0.5% to 2.0%. At December 
31, 2022, we have 1.0 million kgU of UF6 conversion services and 630,000 pounds of U3O8 drawn on the loans. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     55 

 
BALANCE SHEET 

DECEMBER 31, 

($ MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) 
Inventory 

Total assets 

Total non-current liabilities 

Dividends per common share 

2022 
 665 

 8,633 

 2,236 

 0.12 

2021 
 410 

 7,518 

 2,258 

 0.08 

2020 
 680 

 7,581 

 2,318 

 0.08 

CHANGE  

2021 TO 2022 
62% 

15% 

(1)% 

50% 

Total product inventories increased by 62% to $665 million this year as production and purchases were higher than sales 
during the year. At December 31, 2022, our average cost for uranium was $43.45 per pound, up from $38.30 per pound at 
December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we held an inventory of 12 million pounds of U3O8 equivalent (excluding 
broken ore). 

At the end of 2022, our total assets amounted to $8.6 billion, an increase of 15% compared to 2021, due mainly to an increase 
in investment balances resulting from the October 2022 issuance of common shares in preparation for the closing of the 
Westinghouse transaction as well as higher inventories. In 2021, the total asset balance decreased by $0.1 billion compared to 
2020, due mainly to lower inventories which was largely offset by an increase in cash and investment balances. 

56     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
2022 financial results by segment 

Uranium 

HIGHLIGHTS 
Production volume (million lbs) 

Sales volume (million lbs) 

Average spot price  
Average long-term price  

Average realized price 

Average unit cost of sales (including D&A) 

Revenue ($ millions) 

Gross profit (loss) ($ millions) 

Gross profit (loss) (%) 

($US/lb) 
($US/lb) 

($US/lb) 

($Cdn/lb) 

($Cdn/lb) 

2022 
 10.4 

 25.6 

 49.81 
 49.75 

 44.73 

 57.85 

 53.13 

 1,480 

 121 

 8 

2021 
 6.1 

 24.3 

 35.28 
 36.81 

 34.53 

 43.34 

 47.80 

 1,055 

 (108) 

 (10) 

CHANGE  
70% 

5% 

41% 
35% 

30% 

33% 

11% 

40% 

>100% 

>100% 

Production volumes in 2022 increased by 70% compared to 2021. See Uranium – production overview on page 69 for more 
information. 

Uranium revenues this year were up 40% compared to 2021 due to an increase in sales volumes of 5% and an increase of 
33% in the Canadian dollar average realized price due to an increase in the spot price. While the spot price for uranium 
averaged $49.81 (US) per pound in 2022, an increase of 41% compared to the 2021 average of $35.28 (US) per pound, the 
US dollar average realized price only increased by 30% due to the impact of fixed price contracts on the portfolio.  

Total cost of sales (including D&A) increased by 17% ($1.36 billion compared to $1.16 billion in 2021) due to an increase in 
sales volume of 5% and an 11% increase in unit cost of sales. Unit cost of sales is higher than in the same period in 2021 due 
to the higher cost of purchased material and the higher operational readiness costs at McArthur River/Key Lake operations. 
This was offset by the impact of care and maintenance costs at Cigar Lake in 2021 due to the temporary suspension of 
operations due to COVID-19. 

The net effect was a $229 million increase in gross profit for the year. 

The following table shows the costs of produced and purchased uranium incurred in the reporting periods (non-IFRS 
measures, see below). These costs do not include care and maintenance costs, operational readiness costs, selling costs 
such as royalties, transportation and commissions, nor do they reflect the impact of opening inventories on our reported cost of 
sales. 

($CDN/LB) 
Produced 
  Cash cost 
  Non-cash cost  

Total production cost 1 

  Quantity produced (million lbs)1 
Purchased 
  Cash cost1 
  Quantity purchased (million lbs)1 
Totals 

2022 

2021 

CHANGE 

 19.24 
 15.72 
 34.96 

 10.4 

 51.36 
 18.3 

 16.00 
 17.17 
 33.17 

 6.1 

 42.30 
 11.1 

20% 
(8)% 
5% 

70% 

21% 
65% 

Produced and purchased costs 

16% 
  Quantities produced and purchased (million lbs) 
67% 
1  Due to equity accounting for JV Inkai, our share of production is shown as a purchase at the time of delivery. JV Inkai purchases will fluctuate during the quarters 
and timing of purchases will not match production. In 2022 we purchased 3.3 million pounds at a purchase price per pound of $62.78 ($47.33 (US)) (2021 – 5.2 
million pounds at a purchase price per pound of $45.31 ($36.03 (US))). 

 45.42 
 28.7 

 39.06 
 17.2 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     57 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The average cash cost of production was 20% higher compared to 2021. Cash cost was higher due to inflationary pressures, 
labour shortages and supply chain challenges. In addition, with the restart of McArthur River/Key Lake operations the cash 
cost of production will reflect a combined cost of all our operating uranium assets going forward. 

In 2023, with McArthur River/Key Lake ramping up production, and the impact of inflationary pressures, the availability of 
personnel with the necessary skills and experience, and supply chain challenges on the availability of materials and reagents, 
our average annual unit cash cost of production is expected to be higher than the average unit life of mine operating costs 
reflected in our most recent annual information form: approximately $16 per pound at McArthur River/Key Lake; approximately 
$18 per pound at Cigar Lake. 

We also expect the Inkai unit cash cost of production in 2023 to be higher than the average unit life of mine operating costs 
reflected in our most recent annual information form (between $8 and $9 per pound) due to the current supply chain 
challenges and inflationary pressures experienced in Kazakhstan. The benefit of the estimated life-of-mine operating cost for 
JV Inkai’s production is expected to be reflected in the line item on our statement of earnings called, “share of earnings from 
equity-accounted investee”. The current geopolitical and economic uncertainty could continue to impact JV Inkai’s operating 
costs. 

Our purchases in 2022, totaled about $940 million, representing an average annual cost of $51.36 per pound, about $16.00 
per pound higher than our total unit production cost for the year. Although purchased pounds are transacted in US dollars, we 
account for the purchases in Canadian dollars. The average cost of purchased material in Canadian dollar terms increased by 
21% this year compared to 2021. The average cash cost of purchased material was $51.36 (Cdn), or $39.45 (US) per pound, 
compared to $42.30 (Cdn), or $33.73 (US) per pound in the same period in 2021. 

Cash cost per pound, non-cash cost per pound and total cost per pound for produced and purchased uranium presented in the 
above table are non-IFRS measures. These measures do not have a standardized meaning or a consistent basis of 
calculation under IFRS. We use these measures in our assessment of the performance of our uranium business. We believe 
that, in addition to conventional measures prepared in accordance with IFRS, certain investors use this information to evaluate 
our performance and ability to generate cash flow. 

These measures are non-standard supplemental information and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for 
measures of performance prepared according to accounting standards. These measures are not necessarily indicative of 
operating profit or cash flow from operations as determined under IFRS. Other companies may calculate these measures 
differently, so you may not be able to make a direct comparison to similar measures presented by other companies. 

To facilitate a better understanding of these measures, the following table presents a reconciliation of these measures to our 
unit cost of sales for the years ended 2022 and 2021 as reported in our financial statements. 

58     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
CASH AND TOTAL COST PER POUND RECONCILIATION 

($ MILLIONS) 
Cost of product sold 
Add / (subtract) 
  Royalties 
  Other selling costs 
  Care and maintenance and operational readiness costs 
  Change in inventories 
Cash operating costs (a) 
Add / (subtract) 
  Depreciation and amortization 
  Care and maintenance and operational readiness costs 
  Change in inventories 
Total operating costs (b) 

Uranium produced & purchased (million lbs) (c) 

Cash costs per pound (a ÷ c) 
Total costs per pound (b ÷ c) 

ROYALTIES  

2022 
 1,223.6 

 (23.4) 
 (5.9) 
 (178.5) 
 124.2 
 1,140.0 

 135.8 
 (39.9) 
 67.6 
 1,303.5 

 28.7 

 39.72 
 45.42 

2021 
 1,028.8 

 (15.2) 
 (4.6) 
 (156.7) 
 (285.2) 
 567.1 

 134.6 
 (52.9) 
 23.0 
 671.8 

 17.2 

 32.97 
 39.06 

We pay royalties on the sale of all uranium extracted at our mines in the province of Saskatchewan. Two types of royalties are 
paid:  
  Basic royalty: calculated as 5% of gross sales of uranium, less the Saskatchewan resource credit of 0.75%. 
  Profit royalty: a 10% royalty is charged on profit up to and including $26.268/kg U3O8 ($11.91/lb) and a 15% royalty is 
charged on profit in excess of $26.268/kg U3O8. Profit is determined as revenue less certain operating, exploration, 
reclamation and capital costs. Both exploration and capital costs are deductible at the discretion of the producer. 

As a resource corporation in Saskatchewan, we also pay a corporate resource surcharge of 3% of the value of resource sales. 

Fuel services 

(includes results for UF6, UO2, UO3 and fuel fabrication) 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Production volume (million kgU) 

Sales volume (million kgU) 

Average realized price  

Average unit cost of sales (including D&A) 

Revenue ($ millions) 

Gross profit ($ millions) 

Gross profit (%) 

($Cdn/kgU) 

($Cdn/kgU) 

2022 
 13.0 

 11.1 

 32.92 

 22.39 

 365 

 117 

 32 

2021 
 12.1 

 13.6 

 29.72 

 21.02 

 404 

 118 

 29 

CHANGE 
7% 

(18)% 

11% 

7% 

(10)% 

(1)% 

10% 

Total revenue decreased by 10% from 2021 due to an 18% decrease in sales volume partially offset by an 11% increase in the 
realized price. The increase in realized price was mainly the result of increased prices due to market conditions. 

Total cost of products and services sold (including D&A) decreased 13% ($248 million compared to $286 million in 2021), due 
to the 18% decrease in sales volume partially offset by a 7% increase in average unit cost of sales compared to 2021 due to 
higher input costs. 

The net effect was a $1 million decrease in gross profit. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     59 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth quarter financial results 

Consolidated results 

HIGHLIGHTS 

($ MILLIONS EXCEPT WHERE INDICATED) 
Revenue 

Gross profit 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 

$ per common share (basic) 

$ per common share (diluted) 

Adjusted net earnings (non-IFRS, see page 40) 

$ per common share (adjusted and diluted) 

Cash provided by operations 

NET EARNINGS 

THREE MONTHS ENDED  
DECEMBER 31  

 2022 
 524 

 65 

 (15) 

 (0.04) 

 (0.04) 

 36 

 0.09 

 77 

 2021 
 465 

 56 

 11 

 0.03 

 0.03 

 23 

 0.06 

 59 

CHANGE 
13% 

16% 

>100% 

>100% 

>100% 

57% 

50% 

31% 

The following table shows what contributed to the change in net earnings and adjusted net earnings (non-IFRS measure, see 
page 40) in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. 

($ MILLIONS) 

IFRS 

Adjusted 

Net earnings - 2021 
Change in gross profit by segment 
(we calculate gross profit by deducting from revenue the cost of products and services sold, and depreciation and amortization (D&A), net of hedging benefits) 

11 

23 

Uranium 

Fuel services 

Impact from sales volume changes 
Higher realized prices ($US) 
Foreign exchange impact on realized prices  
Higher costs 
change – uranium 
Impact from sales volume changes 
Higher realized prices ($Cdn) 
Lower costs 
change – fuel services 

Other changes 
Lower administration expenditures 
Change in reclamation provisions 
Change in gains or losses on derivatives 
Change in foreign exchange gains or losses 
Change in earnings from equity-accounted investments 
Higher finance income 
Change in income tax recovery or expense 
Other 
Net earnings (losses) - 2022 

ADJUSTED NET EARNINGS 

1 
29 
25 
(41) 
14 
(10) 
4 
1 
(5) 

8 
(78) 
12 
6 
(19) 
21 
13 
2 
(15) 

1 
29 
25 
(41) 
14 
(10) 
4 
1 
(5) 

8 
- 
(12) 
6 
(19) 
21 
(2) 
2 
36 

We use adjusted net earnings, a non-IFRS measure, as a more meaningful way to compare our financial performance from 
period to period. See page 40 for more information. The following table reconciles adjusted net earnings with our net earnings. 

60     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
($ MILLIONS) 
Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 
Adjustments 

Adjustments on derivatives 
Adjustments on other operating expense (income) 
Income taxes on adjustments  

Adjusted net earnings 

ADMINISTRATION 

($ MILLIONS)  
Direct administration 

Stock-based compensation 

Total administration 

THREE MONTHS ENDED 
DECEMBER 31 

2022 
(15) 

(19) 
88 
(18) 
36 

2021 
11 

5 
10 
(3) 
23 

THREE MONTHS ENDED  
DECEMBER 31  

2022 
 37 

 (8) 

 29 

2021 
 28 

 9 

 37 

CHANGE 
32% 

(189)% 

(22)% 

Direct administration costs were $37 million in the quarter, $9 million higher than the same period last year. Stock-based 
compensation expenses were $17 million lower from the fourth quarter of 2021 because of a large decrease in share price in 
the current quarter compared to a very small increase in the same period last year. In addition, the impact of the share price 
changes was offset by a change in assumptions for vesting criteria related to the executive performance share units. In the 
current quarter this was a recovery while in 2021 it was an expense. 

Quarterly trends 

HIGHLIGHTS 
($ MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) 
Revenue 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 

$ per common share (basic)  

$ per common share (diluted)  

Q4 
 524 

 (15) 

Q3 
 389 

 (20) 

 (0.04) 

 (0.05) 

 (0.04) 

 (0.05) 

Adjusted net earnings (loss) (non-IFRS, see page 40) 

 36 

 10 

Q2 
 558 

 84 

 0.21 

 0.21 

 72 

2022 
Q1 
 398 

 40 

 0.10 

 0.10 

 17 

Q3 
 361 

 (72) 

Q2 
 359 

 (37) 

2021 
Q1 
 290 

 (5) 

 (0.18) 

 (0.09) 

 (0.01) 

 (0.18) 

 (0.09) 

 (0.01) 

 (54) 

 (38) 

 (29) 

Q4 
 465 

 11 

 0.03 

 0.03 

 23 

$ per common share (adjusted and diluted)  
Cash provided by (used in) operations (after working 
capital changes) 

 0.09 

 0.03 

 0.18 

 0.04 

 0.06 

 (0.14) 

 (0.10) 

 (0.07) 

 77 

 (47) 

 102 

 172 

 59 

 203 

 152 

 45 

Key things to note:  
  The timing of customer requirements, which tends to vary from quarter to quarter, drives revenue in the uranium and fuel 

services segments.  

  Net earnings do not trend directly with revenue due to unusual items and transactions that occur from time to time. We use 
adjusted net earnings, a non-IFRS measure, as a more meaningful way to compare our results from period to period (see 
page 40 for more information). 

  Cash from operations tends to fluctuate as a result of the timing of deliveries and product purchases in our uranium and fuel 

services segments. 

  Quarterly results are not necessarily a good indication of annual results due to the variability in customer requirements 

noted above. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     61 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table that follows presents the differences between net earnings and adjusted net earnings for the previous seven 
quarters. 

HIGHLIGHTS 
($ MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) 

Net earnings (loss) attributable to equity holders 

Adjustments 

Adjustments on derivatives 
Adjustments on other operating expense (income) 
Adjustment to other income 
Income taxes on adjustments  

Adjusted net earnings (losses) (non-IFRS, see 
page 40) 

Q4 

 (15) 

 (19) 
 88 
 - 
 (18) 

Q3 

 (20) 

 75 
 (24) 
 - 
 (21) 

Q2 

 84 

 31 
 (19) 
 (23) 
 (1) 

2022 
Q1 
 40  

 (11)  
 (19)  
 -  
 7  

 36 

 10 

 72 

 17 

Q4 

 11 

 5 
 10 
 - 
 (3) 

 23 

Q3 

 (72) 

Q2 

 (37) 

 26 
 (2) 
 - 
 (6) 

 (9) 
 6 
 - 
 2 

2021 
Q1 
 (5)  

 (9)  
 (22)  
 -  
 7  

 (54) 

 (38) 

 (29) 

62     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Fourth quarter financial results by segment 

Uranium 

HIGHLIGHTS 
Production volume (million lbs) 

Sales volume (million lbs) 

Average spot price  
Average long-term price  

Average realized price 

Average unit cost of sales (including D&A) 

Revenue ($ millions) 

Gross profit ($ millions) 

Gross profit (%) 

($US/lb) 
($US/lb) 

($US/lb) 

($Cdn/lb) 

($Cdn/lb) 

THREE MONTHS ENDED 
DECEMBER 31 

2022 
 3.7 

 6.9 

 49.94 
 51.67 

 43.05 

 57.87 

 54.37 

 397 

 24 

 6 

2021 
 2.8 

 6.5 

 44.33 
 42.92 

 39.65 

 49.94 

 48.35 

 323 

 10 

 3 

CHANGE  
32% 

6% 

13% 
20% 

9% 

16% 

12% 

23% 

>100% 

100% 

Production volumes this quarter increased by 32% compared to the fourth quarter of 2021. See Uranium – production 
overview on page 69 for more information. 

Uranium revenues were up 23% due to a 6% increase in sales volume and a 16% increase in the Canadian dollar average 
realized price which was a result of an increase in the average spot price for uranium. While the average US dollar spot price 
for uranium increased by 13% compared to the same period in 2021, the US dollar average realized price only increased by 
9% as a result of lower prices on fixed-price contracts. In addition, the Canadian dollar was weaker compared to the same 
period last year, $1.00 (US) for $1.34 (Cdn) compared to $1.00 (US) for $1.26 (Cdn) in the fourth quarter of 2021. 

Total cost of sales (including D&A) increased by 19% ($373 million compared to $313 million in 2021). This was primarily the 
result of the 6% increase in sales volume as well as the increase of 12% in the average unit cost of sales which was due to the 
higher cost of purchased material. 

The net effect was a $14 million increase in gross profit for the quarter. 

The following table shows the costs of produced and purchased uranium incurred in the reporting periods. These costs do not 
include care and maintenance costs, operational readiness costs, selling costs such as royalties, transportation and 
commissions, nor do they reflect the impact of opening inventories on our reported cost of sales. 

($/LB) 
Produced 
  Cash cost 
  Non-cash cost  

Total production cost 1 

  Quantity produced (million lbs)1 
Purchased 
  Cash cost1 
  Quantity purchased (million lbs)1 
Totals 

Produced and purchased costs 

  Quantities produced and purchased (million lbs) 
1  Due to equity accounting for JV Inkai, our share of production will be shown as a purchase at the time of delivery. JV Inkai purchases will fluctuate during the 
quarters and timing of purchases will not match production. During the quarter, we purchased 2.6 million pounds at a purchase price per pound of $61.27 
($45.60 (US)) (Q4 2021 – 2.2 million pounds at a purchase price per pound of $52.69 ($41.79 (US))). 

THREE MONTHS ENDED  
DECEMBER 31  

2022 

2021 

CHANGE 

 19.50 
 13.76 
 33.26 

 3.7 

 57.02 
 5.8 

 13.67 
 17.10 
 30.77 

 2.8 

 52.73 
 3.3 

43% 
(20)% 
8% 

32% 

8% 
76% 

 47.77 
 9.5 

 42.65 
 6.1 

12% 
56% 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     63 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The average cash cost of production for the fourth quarter was 47% higher compared to the same period in the prior year. 
Cash cost was higher due to the effect of supply chain challenges and inflationary pressures, as well as the decreased 
production rate for Cigar Lake compared to 2021. Effective May 19, our ownership stake and share of production from Cigar 
Lake stands at 54.547%, compared to 50.025% in 2021. In addition, the unit production costs for the fourth quarter of 2022 
include production costs from McArthur River/Key Lake operations as they ramp up production.  

Although purchased pounds are transacted in US dollars, we account for the purchases in Canadian dollars. In the fourth 
quarter, the average cash cost of purchased material was $57.02 (Cdn) per pound, or $42.18 (US) per pound in US dollar 
terms, compared to $52.73 (Cdn) per pound, or $41.87 (US) per pound in the fourth quarter of 2021. 

Cash cost per pound, non-cash cost per pound and total cost per pound for produced and purchased uranium presented in the 
above table are non-IFRS measures. See page 57 for more information. 

To facilitate a better understanding of these measures, the following table presents a reconciliation of these measures to our 
unit cost of sales for the fourth quarters of 2022 and 2021. 

CASH AND TOTAL COST PER POUND RECONCILIATION 

($ MILLIONS) 
Cost of product sold 
Add / (subtract) 
  Royalties 
  Other selling costs 
  Care and maintenance and operational readiness costs 
  Change in inventories 
Cash operating costs (a) 
  Depreciation and amortization 
  Care and maintenance and operational readiness costs 
  Change in inventories 
Total operating costs (b) 

Uranium produced & purchased (million lbs) (c) 

Cash costs per pound (a ÷ c) 
Total costs per pound (b ÷ c) 

Fuel services 

(includes results for UF6, UO2, UO3 and fuel fabrication) 

HIGHLIGHTS 
Production volume (million kgU) 

Sales volume (million kgU) 

Average realized price  

Average unit cost of sales (including D&A) 

Revenue ($ millions) 

Gross profit ($ millions) 

Gross profit (%) 

THREE MONTHS ENDED 
DECEMBER 31 

2022 
 355.1 

 (2.1) 
 (2.0) 
 (35.5) 
 87.4 
 402.9 
 18.2 
 (7.5) 
 40.2 
 453.8 

 9.5 

 42.41 
 47.77 

2021 
 278.9 

 (5.0) 
 (1.6) 
 (36.8) 
 (23.2) 
 212.3 
 34.2 
 (10.1) 
 23.8 
 260.2 

 6.1 

34.80 
42.65 

($Cdn/kgU) 

($Cdn/kgU) 

THREE MONTHS ENDED  
DECEMBER 31  

2022 
 3.7 

 3.8 

 30.11 

 19.33 

 115 

 41 

 36 

2021 
 3.1 

 4.9 

 28.80 

 19.45 

 140 

 46 

 33 

CHANGE 
19% 

(22)% 

5% 

(1)% 

(18)% 

(11)% 

9% 

Total revenue decreased by 18% due to a 22% decrease in sales volumes which was partially offset by a 5% increase in 
average realized price. The increase in average realized price was mainly the result of the mix of products sold, as well as 
contracts that were entered into in an improved price environment.  

64     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total cost of sales (including D&A) decreased by 22% to $74 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2021 due to the 22% 
decrease in sales volumes and a decrease of 1% in the average unit cost of sales. 

The net effect was a $5 million decrease in gross profit. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     65 

 
Operations, projects and other fuel cycle 
investments 

This section of our MD&A is an overview of the mining, milling and processing facilities we operate or have an interest in, our 
curtailed operations and our advanced uranium projects, what we accomplished this year, our plans for the future and how we 
manage risk. It also includes an overview of our other investments in the nuclear fuel cycle, and our approach to corporate 
development. 

67  MANAGING THE RISKS  

69  URANIUM – PRODUCTION OVERVIEW  

69 ............... PRODUCTION OUTLOOK  

70  URANIUM – TIER-ONE OPERATIONS  

70 ............... MCARTHUR RIVER MINE / KEY LAKE MILL  

74 ............... CIGAR LAKE  

78 ............... INKAI 

81  URANIUM – TIER-TWO OPERATIONS  

81 ............... RABBIT LAKE  

82 ............... US ISR  

83  URANIUM – ADVANCED PROJECTS  

83 ............... MILLENNIUM 

83 ............... YEELIRRIE 

83 ............... KINTYRE 

85  URANIUM – EXPLORATION 

86  FUEL SERVICES  

86 ............... BLIND RIVER REFINERY  

87 ............... PORT HOPE CONVERSION SERVICES  

87 ............... CAMECO FUEL MANUFACTURING INC. (CFM) 

89  OTHER NUCLEAR FUEL CYCLE INVESTMENTS  

89 ............... GLOBAL LASER ENRICHMENT (GLE)  

89 ............... PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF WESTINGHOUSE   

93  CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT 

66     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
Managing the risks 

The nature of our business means we face many kinds of potential risks and hazards – some that relate to the nuclear energy 
industry in general, safety, health and environmental risks associated with any mining and chemical processing company and 
others that apply to specific properties, operations, planned operations or investments. Our uranium and fuel services 
segments also face unique risks associated with radiation. These risks could have a significant impact on our business, 
earnings, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, which may result in a significant decrease in the 
market price of our common shares.  

Risks and hazards generally applicable to the mining, milling and processing facilities we operate, and advanced projects 
include: 
  catastrophic accidents resulting in large-scale releases 
of hazardous chemicals, or a tailings facility failure, 
which could pose a significant risk to the environment, 
and to employee and public safety 

increased regulatory burdens resulting from the COVID-
19 pandemic or other causes 

  increased workforce health and safety risks or 

  industrial safety accidents 
  transportation incidents 
  labour shortages, disputes or strikes 
  cost increases for labour, contracted or purchased 

materials, supplies and services 

  fires 
  blockades or other acts of social or political activism 
  uncertain impact of changing regulations or policy 
leading to higher annual operating costs, including 
GHG pricing and regulations (e.g., carbon pricing, the 
Canadian Clean Fuel Standard)  

  shortages of, or interruptions in the supply of, required 

  natural phenomena, such as forest fires, floods and 

earthquakes as well as shifts in temperature, 
precipitation, and the impact of more frequent severe 
weather conditions on our operations as a result of 
climate change 

  outbreak of illness (such as a pandemic like COVID-19) 
  unusual, unexpected or adverse mining or geological 

conditions  

  underground water inflows at our mining operations 
  ground movement or cave-ins at our mining operations 

materials, supplies and equipment 
  transportation and delivery disruptions 
  interruptions in the supply of electricity, water, and other 

utilities or infrastructure 

  inability of our innovation initiatives to achieve the 
expected cost saving and operational flexibility 
objectives 

  equipment failures  
  cyberattacks 
  joint venture disputes or litigation 
  non-compliance with legal requirements, including 

exceedances of applicable air or water limits 
  subsurface contamination from current or legacy 

operations 

  inability to obtain and renew the licences and other 

approvals needed to restart, operate, and to increase 
production at our mines, mills, and processing facilities, 
or to develop new mines 

We have a Risk Policy that is supported by our formal Risk Management Program.     

Our Risk Management Program involves a broad, systematic approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring, reporting and 
managing the significant risks we face in our business and operations, including consideration of ESG and climate-related 
risks that could impact our four measures of success. For more information about our risk management program see the Risk 
and Risk Management section in this MD&A, as well as our most recent ESG Report at cameco.com.  

We have insurance to cover some of these risks and hazards, but not all of them, and not to the full amount of losses or 
liabilities that could potentially arise. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     67 

 
In addition to considering the other information in this MD&A and the risks noted above, you should carefully consider the 
material risks discussed starting on page 4, and the specific risks discussed under the update for each operation, advanced 
project, and other nuclear fuel cycle investment in this section. These risks, however, are not a complete list of the potential 
risks our operations, advanced projects, or other investments face. There may be others we are not aware of or risks we feel 
are not material today that could become material in the future. 

We recommend you also review our annual information form, which includes a discussion of other material risks that could 
have an impact on our business. 

68     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Uranium – production overview 

Production in our uranium segment in the fourth quarter was 3.7 million pounds, 32% higher compared to the same period in 
2021, while production for the year was 10.4 million pounds, 70% higher than in 2021. Cigar Lake production was higher in 
2022 as production was impacted in 2021 by the proactive four-month suspension related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 
McArthur River/Key Lake operations transitioned to production in 2022, producing 1.1 million pounds (100% basis) during the 
year. The Rabbit Lake operation remained in a safe and sustainable state of care and maintenance, and we are no longer 
developing new wellfields at Crow Butte and Smith Ranch-Highland. See Uranium – Tier-one operations starting on page 70 
and Uranium – Tier-two operations beginning on page 81 for more information. 

Uranium production 

CAMECO SHARE 

(MILLION LBS) 
Cigar Lake 

THREE MONTHS ENDED 
DECEMBER 31 

YEAR ENDED 
DECEMBER 31 

2022 
 2.9 

2021 
 2.8 

2022 
 9.6 

2021 
 6.1 

2023 PLAN 
 9.8 

2022 PLAN1 
9.5  
up to 1.4  
up to 10.9  

McArthur River/Key Lake 
Total 
1 Cigar Lake was successful in catching up on development work that had been deferred from 2021, and the production target was updated to 9.5 million pounds 
(our share) in our 2022 second quarter MD&A. The increase also reflected our increase in ownership at Cigar Lake. A production target of up to 1.4 million 
pounds (our share) from McArthur River/Key Lake was provided in our 2022 second quarter MD&A due to commissioning delays at the mill. 

 0.8 
 10.4 

 0.8 
 3.7 

 6.1 

 2.8 

10.5 
20.3 

 - 

 - 

PRODUCTION OUTLOOK  

We remain focused on taking advantage of the long-term growth we see coming in our industry, while maintaining the ability to 
respond to market conditions as they evolve. Our strategy includes a focus, in our uranium segment, on protecting and 
extending the value of our contract portfolio, on aligning our production decisions with our contract portfolio and market 
opportunities thereby preserving the value of our lowest cost assets in order to increase long-term value, and to do that with an 
emphasis on safety, people and the environment. 

In 2023, we are planning production of 20.3 million pounds (our share).  

Due to equity accounting, our share of production from Inkai is shown as a purchase. We expect total production from Inkai to 
be 8.3 million pounds (100% basis) in 2023.  An adjustment to the production purchase entitlement allows us to purchase 4.2 
million pounds in 2023. In addition, we expect to purchase the remaining share of our 2022 production entitlement, the majority 
of which is currently in transit. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     69 

 
 
Uranium – Tier-one operations 

McArthur River mine / Key Lake mill 

2022 Production (our share) 

0.8M lbs 

2023 Production Outlook (our share) 

10.5M lbs 

Estimated Reserves (our share) 

275.0M lbs 

Estimated Mine Life 

2044 

McArthur River is the world’s largest, high-grade uranium mine, and Key Lake is the world’s largest uranium mill. Ore grades at 
the McArthur River mine are 100 times the world average. We are the operator of both the mine and mill. 

McArthur River is considered a material uranium property for us. There is a technical report dated March 29, 2019 (effective 
December 31, 2018) that can be downloaded from SEDAR (sedar.com) or from EDGAR (sec.gov). 

Location  

Ownership 

Mine type 
Mining methods 

End product 

Certification 

Estimated reserves 

Estimated resources 

Licensed capacity 

Licence term 

Saskatchewan, Canada 

McArthur River – 69.805% 

Key Lake – 83.33% 

Underground 

Blasthole stoping and raiseboring 

Uranium concentrate 

ISO 14001 certified 

275.0 million pounds (proven and probable), average grade U3O8: 6.70% 

4.7 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 2.23% 

1.7 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 2.89% 

Mine and mill: 25.0 million pounds per year 

Through October, 2023 

Total packaged production: 

2000 to 2022  326.5 million pounds (McArthur River/Key Lake) (100% basis) 

1983 to 2002  209.8 million pounds (Key Lake) (100% basis) 

2022 production 

0.8 million pounds (1.1 million pounds on 100% basis) 

2023 production outlook 

10.5 million pounds (15.0 million pounds on 100% basis) 

Estimated decommissioning cost 

$42 million – McArthur River (100% basis) 

All values shown, including reserves and resources, represent our share only, unless indicated.  

$223 million – Key Lake (100% basis) 

70     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND 

Mine description 

The mineral reserves at McArthur River are contained within seven zones: Zones 1, 2, 3, 4, 4 South, A and B. Prior to care 
and maintenance, there were two active mining zones and one where development was significantly advanced.  

Zone 2 has been actively mined since production began in 1999. The ore zone was initially divided into three freeze panels. As 
the freeze wall was expanded, the inner connecting freeze walls were decommissioned in order to recover the inaccessible 
uranium around the active freeze pipes. Mining of zone 2 is almost complete. About 4.7 million pounds of mineral reserves 
remain and we expect to recover them using a combination of raisebore and blasthole stope mining. 

Zone 4 has been actively mined since 2010. The zone was divided into four freeze panels, and like in zone 2, as the freeze 
wall was expanded, the inner connecting freeze walls were decommissioned. Zone 4 has 116.6 million pounds of mineral 
reserves secured behind freeze walls and it will be the main source of production for the next several years. Raisebore mining 
and blasthole stoping will be used to recover the mineral reserves. 

Zone 1 is the next planned mine area to be brought into production. Freezehole drilling was 90% complete and brine 
distribution construction was approximately 10% complete when work was suspended in 2018 as part of the production 
suspension. Work remaining before production can begin includes completion of the freezehole drilling, brine distribution 
construction, ground freezing and drill and extraction chamber development. Work is expected to resume in zone 1 in 2024. 
Once complete, an additional 48.0 million pounds of mineral reserves will be secured behind freeze walls. Blasthole stope 
mining is currently planned as the main extraction method. 

We have successfully extracted over 325 million pounds (100% basis) since we began mining in 1999.  

Mining methods and techniques 

All the mineralized areas discovered to date at McArthur River are in, or partially in, water-bearing ground with significant 
pressure at mining depths. 

There are three approved mining methods at McArthur River: raisebore mining, blasthole stope mining and boxhole mining. 
However, only raisebore and blasthole stope mining remain in use. Before we begin mining an area, we freeze the ground 
around it by circulating chilled brine through freezeholes to form an impermeable freeze barrier. 

Blasthole stoping  

Blasthole stoping began in 2011 and was the main extraction method prior to our production suspension. It is planned in areas 
where blastholes can be accurately drilled and small stable stopes excavated without jeopardizing the freeze wall integrity. 
The use of this method has allowed the site to improve operating costs by increasing overall extraction efficiency by reducing 
underground development, concrete consumption, mineralized waste generation and improving extraction cycle time.  

Raisebore mining 

Raisebore mining is an innovative non-entry approach that we adapted to meet the unique challenges at McArthur River, and it 
has been used since mining began in 1999. This method is favourable for mining the weaker rock mass areas of the deposit, 
and is suitable for massive high-grade zones where there is access both above and below the ore zone.  

Initial processing 

McArthur River produces two product streams, high grade slurry and low-grade mineralized rock. Both product streams are 
shipped to Key Lake mill to produce uranium ore concentrate.  

The high-grade material is ground and thickened into a slurry underground and then pumped to surface. The material is then 
thickened and blended for grade control and shipped to Key Lake in slurry totes using haul trucks.  

The low-grade mineralized material is hoisted to surface and shipped as a dry product to Key Lake using covered haul trucks. 
Once at Key Lake, the material is ground, thickened and blended with the high-grade slurry to a nominal 5% U3O8 mill feed 
grade. It is then processed into uranium ore concentrate and packaged in drums for further processing offsite. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     71 

 
Tailings capacity 

Based on the current licence conditions, tailings capacity at Key Lake is sufficient to mill all the known McArthur River mineral 
reserves and resources, should they be converted to reserves, with additional capacity to toll mill ore from other regional 
deposits. 

Licensed annual production capacity 

The McArthur River mine and Key Lake mill are both licensed to produce up to 25 million pounds (100% basis) per year. To 
achieve annual production at the licensed capacity, additional investment will be required. 

2022 UPDATE 

Production 

The McArthur River and Key Lake operation was in a state of safe care and maintenance from 2018 through 2021 due to weak 
market conditions. Through most of 2022, we undertook the necessary operational readiness activities prior to restarting 
production. In November 2022, we announced that the first pounds of uranium ore from the McArthur River mine had been 
milled and packaged at the Key Lake mill, marking the achievement of initial production as these facilities transition back into 
normal operations. 

Total packaged production from McArthur River and Key Lake in 2022 was 1.1 million pounds (0.8 million pounds our share) 
as the mine and mill resumed production. 

Operational readiness activities consisted of recruitment, training, infrastructure upgrades and commissioning as well as 
reactivation of mobile equipment previously stored for care and maintenance. Operational activities included mine dewatering, 
water treatment, freeze wall maintenance, and environmental monitoring. 

In 2022, production forecasts were revised as we worked through normal commissioning issues to integrate the existing and 
new assets with upgraded operational technology which caused some delays to schedule at the mill. During the year we 
expensed operational readiness costs of approximately $169 million directly to cost of sales. With the restart of production, in 
2023 we will no longer expense monthly operational readiness costs. 

Exploration 

There was no exploration activity in 2022, as we focused on the restart of production.  

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE 

Production 

We plan to produce 15 million pounds (100% basis) in 2023 and 18 million pounds (100% basis) in 2024.  

With the improvement in the uranium market and the success we have had in securing new long-term contracts, we have 
updated our 2024 production plan to achieve 18 million pounds (100% basis) per year starting in 2024. This will remain our 
production plan until we see further improvements in the uranium market and contracting progress, demonstrating that we 
continue to be a responsible supplier of uranium fuel. 

Innovation 

In 2020, we began a program to advance the assessment of innovation opportunities at the McArthur River mine and Key 
Lake mill. We established a team of internal experts who have been tasked with assessing, designing and implementing 
opportunities to improve operating efficiency. We continue to advance the projects that meet our investment criteria. 

72     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
MANAGING OUR RISKS 

The McArthur River deposit presents unique challenges that are not typical of traditional hard or soft rock mines. These 
challenges are the result of mining in or near high pressure ground water in challenging ground conditions with significant 
radiation concerns due to the high-grade uranium. We take significant steps and precautions to reduce the risks. Mine designs 
and mining methods are selected based on their ability to mitigate hydrological, radiological and geotechnical risks. 
Operational experience gained since the start of production has resulted in a significant reduction in risk. However, there is no 
guarantee that our efforts to mitigate risk will be successful.  

In addition to the risks listed on pages 67 to 68, in 2023 we are focused on the management of the following risks: 

Mine and mill ramp up 

With the extended period of time the assets were on care and maintenance, the operational changes made, and 
commissioning issues that we have worked through at the mill, which caused delays to the production schedule in 2022, there 
is continued uncertainty regarding the timing of a successful ramp up to planned production and the associated costs. In 
addition, inflation, the availability of personnel with the necessary skills and experience, and the potential impact of supply 
chain challenges on the availability of materials and reagents carry with them the risks of not achieving our production plans, 
production delays and increased costs.  

Labour relations 

The collective agreement with the United Steelworkers local 8914 expired in December 2022. As in the past negotiations, work 
continues under the terms of the expired collective agreement while negotiations to reach a new agreement proceeded. There 
is a risk to the production plan if we are unable to reach an agreement and there is a labour dispute. 

Licensing risk 

The current operating licence from the CNSC for both Key Lake and McArthur River expire in October 2023. The relicensing 
process is under way for both sites, and we expect a decision from the CNSC later in 2023. We do not expect any interruption 
or significant risks from this process. 

Water inflow risk 

All the mineralized areas discovered to date at McArthur River are in, or partially in, water-bearing ground with significant 
pressure at mining depths. This high-pressure water source is isolated from active development and production areas in order 
to reduce the inherent risk of an inflow. McArthur River relies on pressure grouting and ground freezing, and sufficient 
pumping, water treatment and above ground storage capacity to mitigate the risks of the high-pressure ground water. 

McArthur River has not experienced a significant disruption to its mining or development activities resulting from a water inflow 
since 2008. The consequences of another water inflow at McArthur River would depend on its magnitude, location and timing, 
but could include a significant interruption or reduction in production, a material increase in costs or a loss of mineral reserves. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     73 

 
Uranium – Tier-one operations 

Cigar Lake 

2022 Production (our share) 

9.6M lbs 

2023 Production Outlook (our share) 

9.8M lbs 

Estimated Reserves (our share) 

84.4M lbs 

Estimated Mine Life 

2031 

Cigar Lake is the world’s highest grade uranium mine, with grades that are 100 times the world average. We are a 54.5% 
owner and the mine operator. Cigar Lake uranium is milled at Orano’s McClean Lake mill. 

Cigar Lake is considered a material uranium property for us. There is a technical report dated March 29, 2016 (effective 
December 31, 2015) that can be downloaded from SEDAR (sedar.com) or from EDGAR (sec.gov). 

Location  

Ownership 

Mine type 

Mining method 

End product 

Certification 

Estimated reserves 
Estimated resources 

Licensed capacity 

Licence term 

Saskatchewan, Canada 

54.547% 

Underground 

Jet boring system 

Uranium concentrate 

ISO 14001 certified 

84.4 million pounds (proven and probable), average grade U3O8: 17.21% 

57.5 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 13.19% 

12.0 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 5.62% 

18.0 million pounds per year (our share 9.8 million pounds per year) 

Through June, 2031 

Total packaged production: 2014 to 2022 

123 million pounds (100% basis) 

2022 production 

9.6 million pounds (18.0 million pounds on 100% basis) 

2023 production outlook 

9.8 million pounds (18.0 million pounds on 100% basis) 

Estimated decommissioning cost 
All values shown, including reserves and resources, represent our share only, unless otherwise indicated. 

$62 million (100% basis) 

BACKGROUND 

Mine description 

Cigar Lake’s geological setting is similar to McArthur River’s. However, unlike McArthur River, the Cigar Lake deposit has the 
shape of a flat- to cigar-shaped lens.  

Mine development is carried out in the basement rocks below the ore horizon. New mine development is required throughout 
the mine life to gain access to the ore above. 

Mining method 

At Cigar Lake, the permeable sandstone which overlays the deposit and basement rocks, contains large volumes of water at 
significant pressure. Before we begin mining, we freeze the ore zone and surrounding ground in the area to be mined to meet 
certain specifications. We use a jet boring mining method to extract the ore. 

74     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Jet boring system (JBS) mining 

As a result of the unique geological conditions at Cigar Lake, we are unable to utilize traditional mining methods that require 
access above the ore, which necessitated the development of a non-entry mining method specifically adapted for this deposit. 
After many years of test mining, we selected jet boring, and it has been used since mining began in 2014.This method 
involves:  
  drilling a pilot hole into the frozen orebody, inserting a high pressure water jet and cutting a cavity out of the frozen ore 
  collecting the ore and water mixture (slurry) from the cavity and pumping it to a storage sump, allowing it to settle  
  using a clamshell, transporting the ore from the storage sump to an underground grinding and processing circuit 
  once mining is complete, filling each cavity in the orebody with concrete  
  starting the process again with the next cavity. 

We have divided the orebody into production panels and at least three production panels need to be frozen at one time to 
achieve the annual production rate. One JBS machine is located below each frozen panel. Three JBS machines are currently 
in operation. Two machines actively mine at any given time while the third is moving, setting up, or undergoing maintenance. 

We have successfully extracted approximately 123 million pounds (100% basis) since we began mining in 2014. 

Initial processing 

We carry out initial processing of the extracted ore at Cigar Lake before shipping it to McClean Lake. To accomplish this, we:  
  grind the ore and mix it with water to form a slurry in our underground circuit 
  pump the slurry 500 metres to the surface and store it in one of two ore slurry holding tanks, where it is blended and 

thickened to remove excess water  

  the final slurry, at an average grade of approximately 15% U3O8, is pumped into transport truck containers and shipped to 

McClean Lake mill on a 69-kilometre all-weather road  

Water from this process, including water from underground operations, is treated on the surface. Any excess treated water is 
released into the environment. 

Milling 

All of Cigar Lake’s ore slurry is being processed at the McClean Lake mill, operated by Orano. Given the McClean Lake mill’s 
capacity, it is able to: 
  process up to 18 million pounds U3O8 per year 
  process and package all of Cigar Lake’s current mineral reserves  

Licensing annual production capacity 

The Cigar Lake mine is licensed to produce up to 18 million pounds (100% basis) per year. Orano’s McClean Lake mill is 
licensed to produce 24 million pounds annually.  

2022 UPDATE 

As announced in May, we along with Orano acquired Idemitsu Canada Resources Ltd.’s 7.875% participating interest in the 
Cigar Lake Joint Venture. Our ownership stake in Cigar Lake now stands at 54.547%, 4.522 percentage points higher than it 
was prior to the transaction. 

Production 

Total packaged production from Cigar Lake in 2022 was 18 million pounds U3O8 (9.6 million pounds our share) compared to 
12.2 million pounds U3O8 (6.1 million pounds our share) in 2021. 2021 production was impacted by suspensions, which were a 
precautionary measure due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2022, we were successful in catching up on development work that 
had been deferred from 2021. Our share of production for 2022 has been updated to reflect the ownership increase effective 
May 19, 2022. 

During the year, we: 
  executed planned 21-day annual maintenance activities in July 
  executed production activities from four production tunnels in the eastern part of the orebody 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     75 

 
  in alignment with our long-term production planning, brought one new panel online as another production panel was 

depleted  

  continued underground header construction activities and expanded our ground freezing program to ensure continued 

frozen ore inventory  

Underground development 

Underground mine development continued in 2022. We completed the first production crosscut in the western portion of the 
orebody in preparation for ore mining starting in the second quarter of 2023. 

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE 

Production 

In 2023, we expect to produce 18 million pounds (100% basis) at Cigar Lake; our share is approximately 9.8 million pounds. 

In 2023, we plan to: 
  continue production activities focused on bringing two new production panels online  
  complete surface freeze drilling and complete construction and commissioning of freeze distribution infrastructure 

expansion in support of future production 

  continue underground mine development on two new production tunnels as well as expand ventilation and access drifts in 

alignment with the long-term mine plan 

  continue upgrades to process water handling circuits and the surface backfill batch plant to support ongoing operations 
  execute a surface delineation drilling program and underground geotechnical drilling program  

Consistent with our strategy to align our production decisions with our contract portfolio and market opportunities, we have 
updated our 2024 production plan. We expect to maintain production at the licensed rate of 18 million pounds (100% basis) 
per year based on our contracting success and the improved outlook for the uranium market compared to our previous plan of 
13.5 million pounds (100% basis) per year in 2024. 

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

The Cigar Lake deposit presents unique challenges that are not typical of traditional hard or soft rock mines. These challenges 
are the result of mining in or near high-pressure ground water in challenging ground conditions with significant radiation 
concerns due to the high-grade uranium and elements of concern in the orebody with respect to water quality. We take 
significant steps and precautions to reduce the risks. Mine designs and the mining method are selected based on their ability 
to mitigate hydrological, radiological, and geotechnical risks. Operational experience gained since the start of production has 
resulted in a significant reduction in risk. However, there is no guarantee that our efforts to mitigate risk will be successful. 

In addition to the risks listed on pages 67 to 68, in 2023 we are focused on the management of the following risks: 

Inflation, labour shortages, and supply chain challenges 

Inflation, the availability of personnel with the necessary skills and experience, and the impact of supply chain challenges on 
the availability of materials and reagents carry with them the risk of not achieving our production plans, production delays and 
increased costs in 2023 and future years. 

Transition to new mining areas 

In order to successfully achieve the planned production schedule, we must continue to successfully transition into new mining 
areas, which includes mine development and investment in critical support infrastructure. If development work is delayed for 
any reason, including availability of storage capacity for waste rock, our ability to meet our future production plans may be 
impacted. 

Water inflow risk 

The sandstone that overlays the Cigar Lake deposit and basement rocks is water-bearing with significant pressure at mining 
depths. This high-pressure water source is isolated from active development and production areas in order to reduce the 
inherent risk of an inflow. Cigar Lake relies on ground freezing and sufficient pumping, water treatment and above ground 
storage capacity to mitigate the risks of the high-pressure ground water. 

76     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Cigar Lake has not experienced a significant disruption resulting from a water inflow since 2008. The consequences of another 
water inflow at Cigar Lake would depend on its magnitude, location and timing, but could include a significant interruption or 
reduction in production, a material increase in costs or a loss of mineral reserves. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     77 

 
Uranium – Tier-one operations 

Inkai 

2022 Production (100% basis) 

8.3M lbs 

2023 Production Outlook (100% basis) 

8.3M lbs 

Estimated Reserves (our share) 

108.7M lbs 

Estimated Mine Life 

2045 (based on licence term)  

Inkai is a very significant uranium deposit, located in Kazakhstan. The operator is JV Inkai limited liability partnership, which 
we jointly own (40%)1 with Kazatomprom (60%). 

Inkai is considered a material uranium property for us. There is a technical report dated January 25, 2018 (effective January 1, 
2018) that can be downloaded from SEDAR (sedar.com) or from EDGAR (sec.gov). 

Location  

Ownership 

Mine type 

End product 

Certifications 

Estimated reserves 

Estimated resources 

South Kazakhstan 

40%1 

In situ recovery (ISR) 

Uranium concentrate 

BSI OHSAS 18001 

ISO 14001 certified 

108.7 million pounds (proven and probable), average grade U3O8: 0.04% 

35.6 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.03% 

9.6 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 0.03% 

Licensed capacity (wellfields) 

10.4 million pounds per year (our share 4.2 million pounds per year)1 

Licence term 

Through July 2045 

Total packaged production: 2009 to 2022 

81 million pounds (100% basis) 

2022 production 

2023 production outlook 

8.3 million pounds (100% basis)1 

8.3 million pounds (100% basis)1 

Estimated decommissioning cost (100% basis) 
All values shown, including reserves and resources, represent our share only, unless indicated. 

$20 million (US) (100% basis) (this estimate is currently under review) 

1 Our ownership interest in the joint venture is 40% and we equity account for our investment. As such, our share of production is shown as a purchase. 

78     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
  
BACKGROUND 

Mine description 

The Inkai uranium deposit is a roll-front type orebody within permeable sandstones. The more porous and permeable units 
host several stacked and relatively continuous, sinuous “roll-fronts” of low-grade uranium forming a regional system. 
Superimposed over this regional system are several uranium projects and active mines.  

Inkai’s mineralization ranges in depths from about 260 metres to 530 metres. The deposit has a surface projection of about 40 
kilometres in length, and the width ranges from 40 to 1600 metres. The deposit has hydrogeological and mineralization 
conditions favourable for use of in-situ recovery (ISR) technology. 

Mining and milling method 

JV Inkai uses conventional, well-established, and very efficient ISR technology, developed after extensive test work and 
operational experience. The process involves five major steps: 
  leach the uranium in-situ by circulating an acid-based solution through the host formation 
  recover it from solution with ion exchange resin (takes place at both main and satellite processing plants) 
  precipitate the uranium with hydrogen peroxide 
  thicken, dewater, and dry it 
  package the uranium peroxide product in drums 

Production 

Total 2022 production from Inkai was 8.3 million pounds (100% basis) as planned, a decrease of 7% from 2021. In 2022, Inkai 
experienced a number of operational issues related to interruptions in reagent delivery and wellfield drilling. While the issues 
have been partially mitigated, their impact on production and inflationary pressure on production supplies pose a risk to JV 
Inkai’s 2023 production volume and its costs.  

The first shipment of our share of JV Inkai’s 2022 production via the Trans-Caspian route arrived at a Canadian port in 
December 2022. This was the first shipment of our share of finished product from JV Inkai that did not rely on Russian rail 
lines or ports. However, the geopolitical situation continues to cause transportation risks in the region. Our 2022 share of 
earnings from this equity-accounted investee were impacted due to the timing of delivery of our share of 2022 production.  

Production purchase entitlements 

Under the terms of a restructuring agreement signed with our partner Kazatomprom in 2016, our ownership interest in JV Inkai 
is 40% and Kazatomprom’s share is 60%. However, during production rampup to the licensed limit of 10.4 million pounds, we 
are entitled to purchase 57.5% of the first 5.2 million pounds of annual production, and as annual production increases over 
5.2 million pounds, we are entitled to purchase 22.5% of such incremental production, to the maximum annual share of 4.2 
million pounds. Once the rampup to 10.4 million pounds annually is complete, we will be entitled to purchase 40% of such 
annual production, matching our ownership interest. 

Based on an adjustment to the production purchase entitlement under the 2016 JV Inkai restructuring agreement, for 2022 we 
were entitled to purchase 4.2 million pounds, or 50% of JV Inkai’s 2022 production of 8.3 million pounds. Timing of our JV 
Inkai purchases will fluctuate during the quarters and may not match production, and, in particular, in 2022, timing was 
impacted by shipping delays. Total purchases in 2022 were 3.3 million pounds, of which 2.6 million pounds were related to our 
2022 entitlement. In 2023, we expect to purchase our remaining 2022 entitlement once it is delivered to our Blind River 
refinery. A second shipment containing the majority of the remaining 2022 production is currently in transit. 

Cash distribution 

Excess cash, net of working capital requirements, will be distributed to the partners as dividends. In 2022, we received 
dividend payments from JV Inkai totaling $92.4 million (US). Our share of dividends follows our production purchase 
entitlements as described above. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     79 

 
PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE 

Production 

Based on an adjustment to the production purchase entitlement under the 2016 JV Inkai restructuring agreement described 
above, we are entitled to purchase 4.2 million pounds, or 50% of JV Inkai’s planned 2023 production of 8.3 million pounds. 

Our share of production is purchased at a discount to the spot price and included at this value in inventory. In addition, JV 
Inkai capital is not included in our outlook for capital expenditures.  

In August 2022, Kazatomprom announced its plan to produce 10% below the planned volumes under its Subsoil Use 
Contracts in 2024. 

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

In addition to the risks listed on pages 67 to 68, JV Inkai also manages the following risks: 

2023 production forecast  

Presently, JV Inkai is experiencing wellfield development, procurement and supply chain issues, and inflationary pressures on 
its production materials and reagents. Achievement of its 2023 production forecast requires it to successfully manage these 
risks. If there is a significant disruption to JV Inkai’s operations for any reason, it may not achieve its production plans, there 
may be a delay in production, and it may experience increased costs to produce uranium. In addition, JV Inkai’s costs could be 
impacted by potential changes to the tax code in Kazakhstan and by possible increased financial contributions to social and 
other state causes, although these risks cannot be quantified or estimated at this time. 

Transportation  

The geopolitical situation continues to cause transportation risks in the region. We could continue to experience delays in our 
expected Inkai deliveries from 2022 and for 2023. To mitigate this risk, we have inventory, long-term purchase agreements 
and loan arrangements in place we can draw on. Depending on when we receive shipments of our share of Inkai’s production, 
our share of earnings from this equity-accounted investee and the timing of the receipt of our share of dividends from the joint 
venture may be impacted. 

Political  

Kazakhstan declared itself independent in 1991 after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Our investment in JV Inkai is subject 
to the greater risks associated with doing business in developing countries, which have significant potential for social, 
economic, political, legal and fiscal instability. Kazakhstan laws and regulations are complex and still developing and their 
application can be difficult to predict. The other owner of JV Inkai is Kazatomprom, an entity majority owned by the 
government of Kazakhstan. We have entered into agreements with JV Inkai and Kazatomprom intended to mitigate political 
risk. This risk includes the imposition of governmental laws or policies that could restrict or hinder JV Inkai paying us 
dividends, or selling us our share of JV Inkai production, or that impose discriminatory taxes or currency controls on these 
transactions. The restructuring of JV Inkai, which took effect January 1, 2018, was undertaken with the objective to better align 
the interests of Cameco and Kazatomprom and includes a governance framework that provides for protection for us as a 
minority owner of JV Inkai. 

In early January 2022, Kazakhstan saw the most significant political instability since it became independent in 1991. The 
events resulted in a state of emergency being declared across the country. Order was restored in the second half of January, 
and the state of emergency was gradually lifted. In November 2022, President Tokayev was re-elected for a new 7-year term. 

For more details on this risk, please see our most recent annual information form under the heading political risks. 

JV Inkai manages risks listed on pages 67 to 68. 

80     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Uranium – Tier-two operations 

Rabbit Lake 

Located in Saskatchewan, Canada, our 100% owned Rabbit Lake operation opened in 1975, and has the second largest 
uranium mill in the world. Due to market conditions, we suspended production at Rabbit Lake during the second quarter of 
2016. 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

ISO certification 

Mine type 

Estimated reserves 

Estimated resources  

Mining methods 
Licensed capacity 

Licence term 

Total production: 1975 to 2022 

2022 production 

2023 production outlook 

Estimated decommissioning cost 

PRODUCTION SUSPENSION 

Saskatchewan, Canada 

100% 

Uranium concentrates 

ISO 14001 certified 

Underground 

- 
38.6 million pounds (indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.95% 
33.7 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 0.62% 
Vertical blasthole stoping 
Mill: maximum 16.9 million pounds per year; currently 11 million 

Through October, 2023 

202.2 million pounds 

0 million pounds 

0 million pounds 

$213 million 

The facilities remained in a state of safe and sustainable care and maintenance throughout 2022.  

While in standby, we continue to evaluate our options in order to minimize care and maintenance costs. We expect care and 
maintenance costs to range between $27 million and $32 million annually. 

FUTURE PRODUCTION 

We do not expect any production from Rabbit Lake in 2023. 

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

The current operating licence from the CNSC for Rabbit Lake expires in October 2023. The relicensing process is under way, 
and we expect a decision from the CNSC later in 2023. 

We also manage the risks listed on pages 67 to 68. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     81 

 
 
US ISR Operations 

Located in Nebraska and Wyoming in the US, the Crow Butte and Smith Ranch-Highland (including the North Butte satellite) 
operations began production in 1991 and 1975. Each operation has its own processing facility. Due to market conditions, we 
curtailed production and deferred all wellfield development at these operations during the second quarter of 2016. 

Ownership 

End product 

ISO certification 

Estimated reserves 

Smith Ranch-Highland: 

North Butte-Brown Ranch: 

Crow Butte: 

Estimated resources  

Smith Ranch-Highland: 

100% 

Uranium concentrates 

ISO 14001 certified 

- 

- 

- 
24.9 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.06% 
7.7 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 0.05% 

North Butte-Brown Ranch:   9.4 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.07% 

Crow Butte: 

Mining methods 

0.4 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 0.06% 
13.9 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.25% 
1.8 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 0.16% 
In situ recovery (ISR)  

Licensed capacity 

Smith Ranch-Highland:1 

Wellfields: 3 million pounds per year; processing plants: 5.5 million pounds per year 

Licence term 

Smith Ranch-Highland: 

Through September, 2028 

Crow Butte: 

Processing plants and wellfields: 2 million pounds per year 

Crow Butte: 

Total production: 2002 to 2022 

2022 production 
2023 production outlook   
Estimated decommissioning cost 

1 Including Highland mill 

PRODUCTION CURTAILMENT 

Through October, 2024 

33.0 million pounds 

0 million pounds 

0 million pounds 

Smith Ranch-Highland: $219 million (US), including North Butte 

Crow Butte: $56 million (US) 

As a result of our 2016 decision, commercial production at the US operations ceased in 2018. We expect ongoing cash and 
non-cash care and maintenance costs to range between $12 million (US) and $14 million (US) for 2023. 

FUTURE PRODUCTION 

We do not expect any production in 2023. 

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

We manage the risks listed on pages 67 to 68. 

82     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uranium – advanced projects 

Work on our advanced projects has been scaled back and will continue at a pace aligned with market signals. 

Millennium 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

Potential mine type 

Estimated resources (our share) 

BACKGROUND 

Saskatchewan, Canada 

69.9% 

Uranium concentrates 

Underground 
53.0 million pounds (indicated), average grade U3O8: 2.39% 
20.2 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 3.19% 

The Millennium deposit was discovered in 2000 and was delineated through geophysical surveys and surface drilling work 
between 2000 and 2013. 

Yeelirrie 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

Potential mine type 

Estimated resources 

BACKGROUND 

Western Australia 

100% 

Uranium concentrates 

Open pit 
128.1 million pounds (measured and indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.15% 

The deposit was discovered in 1972 and is a near-surface calcrete-style deposit that is amenable to open pit mining 
techniques. It is one of Australia’s largest undeveloped uranium deposits. 

Kintyre 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

Potential mine type 

Estimated resources 

BACKGROUND 

Western Australia 

100% 

Uranium concentrates 

Open pit 
53.5 million pounds (indicated), average grade U3O8: 0.62% 
6.0 million pounds (inferred), average grade U3O8: 0.53% 

The Kintyre deposit was discovered in 1985 and is amenable to open pit mining techniques. 

2022 PROJECT UPDATES  

We believe that we have some of the best undeveloped uranium projects in the world. However, in the current market 
environment our primary focus is on producing from our tier-one uranium assets at a pace aligned with our contract portfolio 
and market opportunities. We continue to await a signal from our customers that additional production is needed prior to 
making any new development decisions.  

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE 

2023 Planned activity 

No work is planned at Millennium, Yeelirrie or Kintyre.  

Further progress towards a development decision on any of these projects is not expected until the market fully transitions and 
supply is incented by prices that reflect production economics.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     83 

 
 
 
MANAGING THE RISKS 

Project approval 

The approval received for Kintyre from the prior state government required substantial commencement of the project by March 
2020, being within five years of the grant of the approval, and this was not achieved. The current government declined to grant 
us an extension to achieve it. In the future, we can apply for an extension of time to achieve substantial commencement of the 
project. If granted by a future government we could commence the Kintyre project, provided we have all other required 
regulatory approvals. 

The approval for the Yeelirrie project, received from the prior state government, required substantial commencement of the 
project by January 2022, and this was not achieved. The current government declined to grant us an extension to achieve it. In 
the future, we can again apply for an extension of time to achieve substantial commencement of the project. If granted by a 
future government we could commence the Yeelirrie project, provided we have all other required regulatory approvals. 
Approval for the Yeelirrie project at the federal level was granted in 2019 and extends until 2043. 

For all of our advanced projects, we manage the risks listed on pages 67 to 68. 

84     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Uranium – exploration  

Our exploration program is directed at replacing mineral reserves as they are depleted by our production and is key to 
sustaining our business. We are focused on exploration near our existing operations where we have established infrastructure 
and capacity to expand. Globally, we have land with exploration and development prospects that are among the best in the 
world, mainly in Canada, Australia and the US. Our land holdings total about 0.78 million hectares (1.9 million acres). In 
northern Saskatchewan alone, we have direct interests in about 0.68 million hectares (1.7 million acres) of land covering many 
of the most prospective exploration areas of the Athabasca Basin. 

EXPLORATION AND EVALUATION SPENDING

n
o

i
l
l
i

m
$

 $80

 $70

 $60

 $50

 $40

 $30

 $20

 $10

 $-

$30 

$20 

2017

2018

$14 

2019

$11 

2020

$8 

2021

$11 

2022

$18 

2023E

2022 UPDATE 

Brownfield exploration 

Brownfield exploration is uranium exploration near our existing operations and includes expenses for advanced exploration on 
the evaluation of projects where uranium mineralization is being defined.  

In 2022, we spent about $2 million on brownfields and advanced uranium projects in Saskatchewan and Australia. At the US 
operations we spent $1 million.  

Regional exploration  

We spent about $8 million on regional exploration programs (including support costs), primarily in Saskatchewan’s Athabasca 
Basin. 

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE 

We will maintain an active uranium exploration program and continue to focus on our core projects in Saskatchewan under our 
long-term exploration strategy. Long-term, we look for properties that meet our investment criteria. We may partner with other 
companies through strategic alliances, equity holdings and traditional joint venture arrangements. Our industry expertise in 
both exploration and corporate social responsibility make us a partner of choice. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     85 

 
 
 
Fuel services 

Refining, conversion and fuel manufacturing 

We have about 21% of world UF6 primary conversion capacity and are a supplier of natural UO2. Our focus is on cost-
competitiveness and operational efficiency, as well as increasing our production of UF6 in line with our contract portfolio and 
market opportunities.  

Our fuel services segment is strategically important because it helps support the growth of the uranium segment. Offering a 
range of products and services to customers helps us broaden our business relationships and meet customer needs. 

Blind River Refinery 

Licensed Capacity  

24.0M kgU as UO3 

Licence renewal in 

February 2032 

Blind River is the world’s largest commercial uranium refinery, refining uranium concentrates from mines around the world into 
UO3. 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

ISO certification 
Licensed capacity 

Ontario, Canada 

100% 
UO3 
ISO 14001 certified 

18.0 million kgU as UO3 per year, approved to 24.0 million subject to the completion 
of certain equipment upgrades (advancement depends on market conditions) 

Licence term 

Through February 2032 

Estimated decommissioning cost 

$58 million  

86     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Port Hope Conversion Services 

Licensed Capacity  

12.5M kgU as UF6 
2.8M kgU as UO2 

Licence renewal in 

February 2027 

Port Hope is the only uranium conversion facility in Canada and a supplier of UO2 for Canadian-made CANDU heavy-water 
reactors. 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

ISO certification 

Licensed capacity 

Licence term 

Ontario, Canada 

100% 
UF6, UO2  
ISO 14001 certified 
12.5 million kgU as UF6 per year 
2.8 million kgU as UO2 per year 
Through February 2027 

Estimated decommissioning cost 

$129 million  

Cameco Fuel Manufacturing Inc. (CFM) 

Licensed Capacity  

1.65M kgU as UO2 fuel pellets 

Licence renewal in 

February 2043 

CFM produces fuel bundles and reactor components for CANDU heavy-water reactors. 

Location  

Ownership 

End product 

ISO certification 

Licensed capacity 

Licence term 

Ontario, Canada 

100% 
CANDU fuel bundles and components  
ISO 9001 certified, ISO 14001 certified 
1.65 million kgU as UO2 fuel pellets 
Through February 2043 

Estimated decommissioning cost 

$10.8 million  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     87 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2022 UPDATE 

Production 

Fuel services produced 13.0 million kgU, 7% higher than 2021 due to an increase in demand in 2022. 

Port Hope conversion facility cleanup and modernization (Vision in Motion) 

Vision in Motion is a unique opportunity that demonstrates our continued commitment to a clean environment. It has been 
made possible by the opening of a long-term waste management facility by the Government of Canada’s Port Hope Area 
Initiative project. There is a limited opportunity during the life of this project to engage in clean-up and renewal activities that 
address legacy waste at the Port Hope Conversion facility inherited from historic operations. Progress was made over the past 
year to facilitate the removal of some old buildings and structures, which will be the focus in the year ahead. 

PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE 

Production 

We plan to produce between 13 million and 14 million kgU in 2023. In addition, at our Port Hope UF6 conversion facility we are 
working on increasing annual production to 12,000 tonnes in 2024 to satisfy our book of long-term business and demand for 
conversion services. 

Also, in conjunction with our initiative intended to provide a greater focus on technology and its applications to improve 
efficiency and reduce costs across the organization, we will continue to look for opportunities to improve operational 
effectiveness, including the use of digital and automation technologies. 

Licensing 

In January 2023, the CNSC granted a 20-year renewal to the licence for CFM. The licence renewal also grants CFM’s request 
for a slight production increase to 1,650 tonnes as UO2 fuel pellets.  

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

We take significant steps and precautions to reduce risk. However, there is no guarantee that our efforts to mitigate risk will be 
successful. 

In addition to the risks listed on pages 67 to 68, in 2023 we are focused on the management of the following risk: 

Production plans 

Inflation, the availability of personnel with the necessary skills and experience, aging infrastructure, and the potential impact of 
supply chain challenges on the availability of materials and reagents carry the risk of not achieving our production plans, 
production delays, and increased costs in 2023 and future years.  

88     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Other Nuclear Fuel Cycle Investments 

Global Laser Enrichment 

Global Laser Enrichment LLC (GLE) is the exclusive licensee of the proprietary Separation of Isotopes by Laser Excitation 
(SILEX) laser enrichment technology, a third-generation uranium enrichment technology. We are the commercial lead for the 
GLE project with a 49% interest and starting in February 2023, an option to attain a majority interest of up to 75% ownership. 

Subject to completion of the technology development program, and its progression through to commercialization, GLE has the 
potential to offer a variety of advantages to the global nuclear energy sector over the long-term, which include:  
  re-enriching depleted uranium tails leftover as a by-product of previous-generation enrichment technologies, repurposing 
legacy waste into a commercial source of uranium and conversion products to fuel nuclear reactors and aiding in the 
responsible clean-up of enrichment facilities no longer in operation, as per GLE’s agreement with the U.S. Department of 
Energy  

  producing commercial low-enriched uranium (LEU) fuel for the world’s existing and future fleet of large-scale light-water 

reactors with greater efficiency and flexibility than current enrichment technologies  

  producing high-assay low-enriched uranium (HALEU), the primary fuel stock for the majority of small modular reactor 
(SMR) and advanced reactor designs that are proceeding through the development stage and continuing toward 
commercial readiness 

In 2022, GLE made progress with the first full-scale laser system module, successfully completing eight months of testing in 
Australia, and the system was delivered to GLE’s commercial pilot demonstration facility in the US. In addition, GLE signed 
letters of intent to collaborate with two major US utilities to help diversify the US nuclear fuel supply chain, including measures 
to support its deployment of laser enrichment technology in the US.   

The development timeline for GLE will be dependent on several factors, including market fundamentals, securing government 
funding, support for HALEU availability in the US and GLE’s ability to secure long-term contracts to underpin the deployment 
of a commercial facility. 

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

GLE is subject to the risks relating to the nuclear industry discussed under the heading Caution about forward-looking 
information beginning on page 2. 

Proposed acquisition of Westinghouse 

As announced on October 11, 2022, we entered into a strategic partnership with Brookfield Renewable and its institutional 
partners to acquire Westinghouse Electric Company (Westinghouse), a global provider of mission-critical and specialized 
technologies, products and services across most phases of the nuclear power sector. Brookfield Renewable will beneficially 
own a 51% interest in Westinghouse and Cameco will beneficially own 49%. Bringing together Cameco’s expertise in the 
nuclear industry with Brookfield Renewable’s expertise in clean energy positions nuclear power at the heart of the energy 
transition and creates a powerful platform for strategic growth across the nuclear sector. 

Westinghouse’s history in the energy industry stretches back over a century, during which time the company became a 
pioneer in nuclear energy. 

Westinghouse is organized in three business segments: 
  Operating Plant Services: Long-term contracting for the manufacturing and installation of fuel assemblies and other 

ancillary equipment across multiple light water reactor technologies. Westinghouse provides recurring services for outages 
and maintenance, engineering solutions, and replacement components and parts. 

  Energy Systems: Designing, engineering and supporting the development of new nuclear reactors. 
  Environmental Services: Services to government and commercial customers that support nuclear sustainability, 

environmental stewardship and remediation. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     89 

 
The largest business segment is Operating Plant Services, which accounted for approximately $2.7 billion (US) or about 81% 
of Westinghouse’s total 2021 revenue of approximately $3.3 billion (US). This segment is built on long-term customer 
relationships. These customers seek solutions to ensure their reactors operate efficiently and reliably and therefore results in 
predictable revenue streams. 

The acquisition of Westinghouse will be through a strategic partnership with Brookfield Renewable in the form of a limited 
partnership that will allow each of us to further participate in and support the growing momentum for nuclear energy. The 
board of directors of the general partner of the limited partnership will consist of six directors, three appointed by Cameco and 
three appointed by Brookfield Renewable. Decision-making by the board of the general partnership will correspond to 
percentage ownership interests in the limited partnership (51% Brookfield Renewable and 49% Cameco). There are a number 
of significant decisions that require the presence and support of both Cameco and Brookfield Renewable appointees to the 
board as long as certain ownership thresholds are met. These “reserved” matters will include decisions such as the approval 
of the annual budget, entering into material contracts, the making of significant investments, entering into new lines of 
business and related-party transactions. We expect to account for our share of the investment using the equity method. 

We expect the acquisition to: 
  expand our participation in the nuclear fuel value chain. The acquisition is expected to complement our high-quality, tier-one 

uranium assets and fuel services, including CANDU fuel manufacturing for heavy water reactors with Westinghouse’s 
global nuclear fuel and plant services platform for light water reactors, which we expect will augment and expand our ability 
to meet the growing demand for nuclear fuel supplies and services that are reliable and secure; 

  be accretive to our cash flow after the closing, and prior to considering new revenue opportunities and to complement our 

existing business. Based on Westinghouse’s strong long-term customer relationships, the service type model of the 
Operating Plant Services segment and resulting reliable revenue streams we expect it to generate stable cash flow, to fund 
its approved annual operating budget and provide quarterly distributions to the partners after the closing; 

  create new revenue opportunities for us by expanding our ability to satisfy existing and new customer needs. In addition to 
Westinghouse’s contribution to our financial results, the acquisition is expected to result in up to $50 million in additional 
revenue for Cameco in the year following the closing of the transaction and to result in additional revenue opportunities for 
us in the future from new customers and existing customers seeking a fully fabricated fuel supply option; and 

  maintain our strong balance sheet through a disciplined funding strategy designed to enhance our financial strength. At the 
same time, we expect to continue to execute on our strategy and provide a platform for further growth, expanding our reach 
in an industry that has historically performed well during varying macroeconomic environments due to the baseload nature 
of nuclear power and its strong customer base. 

MANAGING OUR RISKS 

The proposed acquisition of a beneficial ownership interest in Westinghouse is subject to the risks that are discussed under 
the heading Caution about forward-looking information beginning on page 2. For a further description of the material risks 
relating to the acquisition, please refer to Risk Factors -- Risks Related to the Acquisition in our October 12, 2022, prospectus 
supplement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Canadian securities administrators. It is available at 
www.sec.gov and www.sedar.com. 

WESTINGHOUSE NON-GAAP MEASURES 

When we announced the proposed acquisition, we had derived the following summary financial information from 
Westinghouse’s annual and interim consolidated financial statements, which are reported in US dollars and prepared in 
accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Since the transaction has not closed and ownership 
has not transferred, we are unable to update this information. The Westinghouse financial information is not predictive of 
actual future results.  Additionally, the financial information for Westinghouse does not take into account any circumstances or 
geopolitical or other events occurring after the date it was prepared. We will evaluate the appropriate and required disclosures 
when the acquisition closes, assuming all regulatory and other approvals are received. 

90     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA margin and adjusted free cash flow margin are measures that do 
not have a standardized meaning or a consistent basis of calculation under GAAP (non-GAAP measure). These measures are 
used by Cameco and other users, including our lenders and investors, to assess Westinghouse’s results of operations from a 
management perspective without regard to its capital structure. We believe that these measures are useful to management, 
lenders, and investors in assessing the underlying performance of Westinghouse’s ongoing operations and its ability to 
generate cash flows to fund its cash requirements. 

Westinghouse’s adjusted EBITDA is defined as its net income, adjusted for the impact of certain expenses, costs, charges or 
benefits incurred in such period which are either not indicative of underlying business performance or that impact the ability to 
assess the operating performance of its business. Westinghouse may realize similar gains or incur similar expenditures in the 
future. The other measures are defined in the table below. 

Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA margin and adjusted free cash flow margin are specified financial 
measures and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information prepared according to GAAP. 
Other companies may calculate these measures differently, so you may not be able to make a direct comparison to similar 
measures presented by other companies. 

The following financial information of Westinghouse was prepared by us at the time of the announced acquisition and was 
derived from (i) Westinghouse’s annual consolidated financial statements as at and for the years ended December 31, 2019, 
2020 and 2021 and (ii) Westinghouse’s interim consolidated financial statements as at and for the six-months ended June 30, 
2021 and 2022 which are reported in US dollars and prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The following table provides a 
reconciliation of Westinghouse’s net income to adjusted EBITDA, adjusted free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA margin and 
adjusted free cash flow margin for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021 and for the twelve-month period 
ended June 30, 2022: 

($US MILLIONS)  
Net income 

Depreciation and amortization 
Interest costs (net, including accretion) 
Income tax (recovery) 
Restructuring and acquisition related expenses 
Gain (loss) on disposal of fixed assets 
Non-operating income 
Impact of derivative instruments 
Other non-operating items 
Adjusted EBITDA 

Capital expenditures 

Revenue 

Adjusted free cash flow (adjusted EBITDA - capital expenditures) 

Adjusted EBITDA margin (adjusted EBITDA/revenue) 

Adjusted free cash flow margin (adjusted free cash flow/adjusted 
EBITDA) 
Calculations may not compute due to rounding 

LTM ENDED  
JUNE 30, 2022 
559 

299 
183 
(433) 
89 
(1) 
(1) 
12 
(7) 
701 

145 

3,273 

556 

21% 

79% 

2021 
126 

303 
186 
(17) 
67 
7 
- 
2 
21 
695 

154 

3,286 

541 

21% 

78% 

2020 
42 

289 
221 
15 
70 
5 
(3) 
(20) 
28 
646 

133 

3,275 

513 

20% 

79% 

2019 
26 

284 
243 
(6) 
97 
(9) 
(36) 
- 
13 
613 

138 

3,350 

475 

18% 

78% 

The total enterprise purchase price for the acquisition is $7.875 billion (US), which includes an assumption of an estimated 
$3.4 billion (US) of debt which will remain with Westinghouse, and which is subject to customary purchase price adjustments. 
The remainder of the purchase price will be paid by approximately $4.5 billion (US) of aggregate cash contributions, our share 
of which will be approximately $2.2 billion (US). 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     91 

 
 
 
 
Concurrently with the execution of the acquisition agreement, we secured commitments that provide for a $1 billion (US) 
bridge loan facility and $600 million (US) in term loans. Following the announcement, we undertook a $650 million (US) bought 
deal offering of common shares, with an underwriter option to purchase additional shares. The offering closed on October 17, 
2022, providing us with gross proceeds of approximately $747.6 million (US) including the underwriters’ exercise of the option 
to purchase additional shares in full. With the proceeds from the closing of the offering and based on current uncertainty in the 
global macroeconomic environment and the success we are having in adding new long-term business, at this time, we do not 
intend to issue additional equity to fund our portion of the purchase price for the Westinghouse acquisition. As of the closing of 
the bought deal offering, the bridge loan facility was reduced to $280 million (US). The debt facilities will remain undrawn until 
closing of the acquisition. The bridge facility, if funded, will mature 364 days after the acquisition closing date, and the term 
loans consisting of two tranches of $300 million (US) each, are expected to mature two years and three years after the 
acquisition closes. 

The acquisition is expected to close in the second half of 2023 and continues to be subject to customary closing conditions 
and certain regulatory approvals. The final financing is not required until close of the acquisition and will be determined based 
on market conditions and the expected run rate of our business at that time. We expect a permanent financing mix of capital 
sources, including cash, debt and equity, designed to preserve our balance sheet and ratings strength, while maintaining 
healthy liquidity. 

___________________ 

Caution about forward-looking information relating to the Westinghouse acquisition 
This discussion of our expectations for the Westinghouse acquisition, including sources and uses of financing for the acquisition, timeline for the acquisition, 
including anticipated closing date, expected benefits, and our intention in respect of not issuing additional equity to fund our portion of the purchase price for the 
Westinghouse acquisition is forward-looking information that is based upon the assumptions and subject to the material risks discussed under the headings 
Caution about forward-looking information beginning on page 2, and in our October 18, 2022 material change report. The material change report is available at 
www.sedar.com and www.sec.gov. Actual results and events may be significantly different from what we currently expect. 

92     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
Corporate development 

Investment program 

Currently, with our extensive portfolio of mineral reserves and resources and our belief that we have ample productive capacity 
with the ability to expand as the demand for nuclear energy and nuclear fuels grows, our focus is on navigating by our 
investment-grade rating and returning to our tier-one run rate while aligning our tier-one production with our delivery 
commitments and market opportunities. We expect that these assets will allow us to meet rising uranium demand with 
increased production from our best margin operations and will help to mitigate risk in the event of prolonged uncertainty. 

Additionally, we are exploring opportunities across the fuel cycle, which align well with our commitment to responsibly and 
sustainably manage our business and increase our contributions to global climate change solutions. These opportunities 
include investments such as our recently announced plans to acquire a 49% interest in Westinghouse Electric Company, as 
well as emerging opportunities such as our investment in Global Laser Enrichment LLC. It also includes the non-binding 
arrangements we have signed to explore several areas of cooperation to advance the commercialization and deployment of 
small modular reactors in Canada and around the world.  

We continually evaluate investment opportunities within the nuclear fuel cycle that could add to our future supply options, 
support our customer’s needs, and complement and enhance our business in the nuclear industry. We will make an 
investment decision when an opportunity is available at the right time and the right price. We strive to pursue corporate 
development initiatives that will leave us and our stakeholders in a fundamentally stronger position. As such, an investment 
opportunity is never assessed in isolation. Investments must compete for investment capital with our own internal growth 
opportunities. They are subject to our capital allocation process described under Our vision, values and strategy, starting on 
page 23. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     93 

 
Mineral reserves and resources 

Our mineral reserves and resources are the foundation of our company and fundamental to our success. 

We have interests in a number of uranium properties. The tables in this section show the estimates of the proven and probable 
mineral reserves, and measured, indicated, and inferred mineral resources at those properties. However, only three of the 
properties listed in those tables are material uranium properties for us: McArthur River/Key Lake, Cigar Lake and Inkai. Mineral 
reserves and resources are all reported as of December 31, 2022. 

We estimate and disclose mineral reserves and resources in five categories, using the definition standards adopted by the 
Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Council, and in accordance with National Instrument 43-101 – 
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects (NI 43-101), developed by the Canadian Securities Administrators. You can find 
out more about these categories at www.cim.org. 

About mineral resources 

Mineral resources do not have to demonstrate economic viability but have reasonable prospects for eventual economic 
extraction. They fall into three categories: measured, indicated and inferred. Our reported mineral resources are exclusive of 
mineral reserves. 
  measured and indicated mineral resources can be estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the appropriate application 

of technical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors to support evaluation of the 
economic viability of the deposit 

  measured resources: we can confirm both geological and grade continuity to support detailed mine planning 
  indicated resources: we can reasonably assume geological and grade continuity to support mine planning 
  inferred mineral resources are estimated using limited geological evidence and sampling information. We do not have 

enough confidence to evaluate their economic viability in a meaningful way. You should not assume that all or any part of 
an inferred mineral resource will be upgraded to an indicated or measured mineral resource, but it is reasonably expected 
that the majority of inferred mineral resources could be upgraded to indicated mineral resources with continued exploration. 

Our share of uranium in the following mineral resource tables is based on our respective ownership interests. Reported 
mineral resources have not demonstrated economic viability. 

About mineral reserves 

Mineral reserves are the economically mineable part of measured and/or indicated mineral resources demonstrated by at least 
a preliminary feasibility study. The reference point at which mineral reserves are defined is the point where the ore is delivered 
to the processing plant, except for ISR operations where the reference point is where the mineralization occurs under the 
existing or planned wellfield patterns. Mineral reserves fall into two categories: 
  proven reserves: the economically mineable part of a measured resource for which at least a preliminary feasibility study 

demonstrates that, at the time of reporting, economic extraction could be reasonably justified with a high degree of 
confidence 

  probable reserves: the economically mineable part of a measured and/or indicated resource for which at least a preliminary 
feasibility study demonstrates that, at the time of reporting, economic extraction could be reasonably justified with a degree 
of confidence lower than that applying to proven reserves  

For properties where we are the operator, we use current geological models, an average uranium price of $53 (US) per pound 
U3O8, and current or projected operating costs and mine plans to report our mineral reserves, allowing for dilution and mining 
losses. We apply our standard data verification process for every estimate. For properties in which Cameco has an interest but 
is not the operator, we will take reasonable steps to ensure that the reserve and resource estimates that we report are reliable. 

Our share of uranium in the mineral reserves table below is based on our respective ownership interests. 

94     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
PROVEN AND PROBABLE (P&P) RESERVES, MEASURED AND INDICATED (M&I) 
RESOURCES, INFERRED RESOURCES (SHOWING CHANGE FROM 2021)
at December 31, 2022

P&P Reserves 469 
M lbs (+5 M lbs)

Inferred Resources 
154 M lbs (no 
change)

M&I Resources 451 
M lbs (+4 M lbs)

Changes this year 

Our share of proven and probable mineral reserves increased from 464 million pounds U3O8 at the end of 2021, to 469 million 
pounds at the end of 2022. The change was primarily the result of: 
  a mineral resource and reserve estimate update at Cigar Lake which added 9 million pounds to proven and probable 

reserves based on ongoing surface freeze drilling results. 

  increased ownership stake at Cigar Lake which added 7 million pounds 

partially offset by: 
  production at Cigar Lake, Inkai and McArthur River, which removed 14 million pounds from our mineral inventory 

The remaining changes are attributable to other adjustments based on the mineral resource and reserve estimate updates at 
Cigar Lake and McArthur River. 

Our share of measured and indicated mineral resources increased from 447 million pounds U3O8 at the end of 2021, to 451 
million pounds at the end of 2022. Our share of inferred mineral resources remains unchanged at 154 million pounds U3O8. 

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS     95 

 
 
 
 
Qualified persons 

The technical and scientific information discussed in this MD&A for our material properties (McArthur River/Key Lake, Cigar 
Lake and Inkai) was approved by the following individuals who are qualified persons for the purposes of NI 43-101: 

 MCARTHUR RIVER/KEY LAKE 

INKAI 

  Greg Murdock, general manager, McArthur River, 

  Alain D. Renaud, principal resource geologist, technical 

Cameco 

services, Cameco 

  Daley McIntyre, general manager, Key Lake, Cameco 
  Alain D. Renaud, principal resource geologist, technical 

  Scott Bishop, director, technical services, Cameco 
  Biman Bharadwaj, principal metallurgist, technical 

services, Cameco 

  Sergey Ivanov, deputy director general, technical 

services, Cameco Kazakhstan LLP 

services, Cameco 

  Biman Bharadwaj, principal metallurgist, technical 

services, Cameco  

 CIGAR LAKE 

  Lloyd Rowson, general manager, Cigar Lake, Cameco 
  Scott Bishop, director, technical services, Cameco 
  Alain D. Renaud, principal resource geologist, technical 

services, Cameco 

  Biman Bharadwaj, principal metallurgist, technical 

services, Cameco

Important information about mineral reserve and resource estimates 

Although we have carefully prepared and verified the mineral reserve and resource figures in this document, the figures are 
estimates, based in part on forward-looking information. 

Estimates are based on knowledge, mining experience, analysis of drilling results, the quality of available data and 
management’s best judgment. They are, however, imprecise by nature, may change over time, and include many variables 
and assumptions, including:  
  geological interpretation 
  extraction plans 
  commodity prices and currency exchange rates 
  recovery rates 
  operating and capital costs 

There is no assurance that the indicated levels of uranium will be produced, and we may have to re-estimate our mineral 
reserves based on actual production experience. Changes in the price of uranium, production costs or recovery rates could 
make it unprofitable for us to operate or develop a particular site or sites for a period of time. See page 2 for information about 
forward-looking information. 

Please see our mineral reserves and resources section of our most recent annual information form for the specific 
assumptions, parameters and methods used for McArthur River, Inkai and Cigar Lake mineral reserve and resource estimates.  

Important information for US investors 

We present information about mineralization, mineral reserves and resources as required by National Instrument 43-101 – 
Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects of the Canadian Securities Administrators (NI 43-101), in accordance with 
applicable Canadian securities laws. As a foreign private issuer filing reports with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) under the Multijurisdictional Disclosure System, we are not required to comply with the SEC’s disclosure 
requirements relating to mining properties. Investors in the United States should be aware that the disclosure requirements of 
NI 43-101 are different from those under applicable SEC rules, and the information that we present concerning mineralization, 
mineral reserves and resources may not be comparable to information made public by companies that comply with the SEC’s 
reporting and disclosure requirements for mining companies. 

96     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
Mineral reserves 

As of December 31, 2022 (100% – only the shaded column shows our share) 

PROVEN AND PROBABLE 

(tonnes in thousands; pounds in millions) 

PROVEN 

PROBABLE 

TOTAL MINERAL RESERVES 

RESERVES 

OUR 

SHARE 

PROPERTY 
Cigar Lake 

Key Lake 

McArthur River 

Inkai 

Total 

MINING  

METHOD 
UG 

OP 

UG 

ISR 

TONNES   % U3O8 
16.25 

308.9 

GRADE  CONTENT 
(LBS U3O8) 
110.7 

TONNES  % U3O8 
20.19 

GRADE  CONTENT 
(LBS U3O8) 
44.1 

99.1 

61.1 

2,138.3 

253,647.2 

256,155.6 

0.52 

7.00 

0.04 

- 

0.7 

329.9 

218.3 

659.7 

- 

530.7 

71,803.1 

72,432.9 

- 

5.47 

0.03 

- 

64.0 

53.5 

TONNES 

408.0 

61.1 

2,669.0 

325,450.3 

GRADE  CONTENT  CONTENT  METALLURGICAL 
% U3O8 
17.21 

RECOVERY (%) 
98.8 

(LBS U3O8) 
84.4 

(LBS U3O8) 
154.8 

0.52 

6.70 

0.04 

- 

0.7 

394.0 

271.8 

821.3 

0.6 

275.0 

108.7 

468.8 

95 

99 

85 

- 

- 

161.6 

328,588.5 

(UG – underground, OP – open pit, ISR – in situ recovery) 
Note that the estimates in the above table: 

 
 

use a constant dollar average uranium price of approximately $53 (US) per pound U3O8  
are based on exchange rates of $1.00 US=$1.26 Cdn and $1.00 US=490 Kazakhstan Tenge  

Our estimate of mineral reserves and mineral resources may be positively or negatively affected by the occurrence of one or 
more of the material risks discussed under the heading Caution about forward-looking information beginning on page 2, as 
well as certain property-specific risks. See Uranium – Tier-one operations starting on page 70. 

Metallurgical recovery 

We report mineral reserves as the quantity of contained ore supporting our mining plans and provide an estimate of the 
metallurgical recovery for each uranium property. The estimate of the amount of valuable product that can be physically 
recovered by the metallurgical extraction process is obtained by multiplying the quantity of contained metal (content) by the 
planned metallurgical recovery percentage. The content and our share of uranium in the table above are before accounting for 
estimated metallurgical recovery. 

2022 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES     97 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mineral resources 

As of December 31, 2022 (100% – only the shaded columns show our share) 

MEASURED, INDICATED AND INFERRED 

(tonnes in thousands; pounds in millions) 

MEASURED RESOURCES (M) 

INDICATED RESOURCES (I) 

OUR 
SHARE 

INFERRED RESOURCES 

OUR 
SHARE 

PROPERTY 
Cigar Lake 

Fox Lake 

Kintyre 

TONNES   % U3O8 
6.06 

48.0 

GRADE  CONTENT 
(LBS U3O8) 
6.4 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

McArthur River 

74.9 

2.23 

3.7 

TONNES 

TOTAL M+I  TOTAL M+I 
GRADE  CONTENT  CONTENT  CONTENT 
(LBS U3O8) 
% U3O8 
57.5 
314.1  14.28 

(LBS U3O8) 
105.3 

(LBS U3O8) 
98.9 

INFERRED 
GRADE  CONTENT  CONTENT 
(LBS U3O8) 
% U3O8 
12.0 
5.62 

(LBS U3O8) 
22.1 

- 

3,897.7 

63.0 

1,442.6 

1,836.5 

183.8 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

27,172.9 

1,558.1 

687.2 

87,192.7 

0.16 

0.19 

0.11  

0.03  

604.2 

0.08  

- 

89.2 

- 

0.15 

0.10 

95.9 

12,178.3 

6.6 

1.7 

939.3 

3,626.1 

56.1 

65,236.0 

1.1 

- 

0.3 

7.9 

5,530.3 

0.07 

2,215.3 

1,638.2 

14,372.3 

- 

0.62 

2.23 

2.39 

0.95 

4.42 

0.12 

0.35 

0.15 

0.02 

0.08 

0.11 

0.05 

- 

- 

53.5 

3.1 

75.9 

38.6 

17.9 

32.2 

7.3 

11.6 

32.9 

8.4 

4.1 

4.1 

- 

53.5 

6.8 

75.9 

38.6 

17.9 

- 

53.5 

4.7 

53.0 

38.6 

10.3 

128.1 

128.1 

13.9 

13.3 

89.1 

9.4 

4.1 

4.4 

13.9 

13.3 

35.6 

9.4 

4.1 

4.4 

TONNES 

178.2 

386.7 

517.1 

38.9 

412.4 

2,460.9 

45.6 

- 

531.4 

3,307.5 

36,165.2 

7.99 

0.53 

2.89 

3.19 

0.62 

1.02 

- 

0.16 

0.08 

0.03 

0.13 

0.10 

0.05 

68.1 

6.0 

2.5 

29.0 

33.7 

1.0 

- 

1.8 

6.0 

23.9 

0.4 

0.2 

1.1 

7.7 

53.3 

6.0 

1.7 

20.2 

33.7 

0.6 

- 

1.8 

6.0 

9.6 

0.4 

0.2 

1.1 

7.7 

294.5 

0.06 

56.2 

508.0 

17.0 

405.5 

24.9 

585.2 

24.9 

451.4 

6,861.0 

51,763.7 

- 

203.5 

154.4 

Millennium 

Rabbit Lake 

Tamarack 

Yeelirrie 

Crow Butte 

Gas Hills - Peach 

Inkai 
North Butte - Brown 
Ranch 
Ruby Ranch 

Shirley Basin 

Smith Ranch - Highland 

3,703.5 

Total 

121,130.7 

- 

179.7 

113,473.7 

Note that mineral resources: 
 
 
 

do not include amounts that have been identified as mineral reserves 
do not have demonstrated economic viability 
totals may not add due to rounding 

98     CAMECO CORPORATION 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information 

Due to the nature of our business, we are required to make estimates that affect the amount of assets and liabilities, revenues 
and expenses, commitments and contingencies we report. We base our estimates on our experience, our best judgment, 
guidelines established by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum and on assumptions we believe are 
reasonable.  

We believe the following critical accounting estimates reflect the more significant judgments used in the preparation of our 
financial statements. These estimates affect all of our segments, unless otherwise noted. 

Decommissioning and reclamation 

In our uranium and fuel services segments, we are required to estimate the cost of decommissioning and reclamation for each 
operation, but we normally do not incur these costs until an asset is nearing the end of its useful life. Regulatory requirements 
and decommissioning methods could change during that time, making our actual costs different from our estimates. A 
significant change in these costs or in our mineral reserves could have a material impact on our net earnings and financial 
position. See note 16 to the financial statements.  

Carrying value of assets 

We depreciate property, plant and equipment primarily using the unit-of-production method, where the carrying value is 
reduced as resources are depleted. A change in our mineral reserves would change our depreciation expenses, and such a 
change could have a material impact on amounts charged to earnings. 

We assess the carrying values of property, plant and equipment, intangibles and investments in associates and joint ventures 
every year, or more often if necessary. If we determine that we cannot recover the carrying value of an asset, we write off the 
unrecoverable amount against current earnings. We base our assessment of recoverability on assumptions and judgments we 
make about future prices, production costs, our requirements for sustaining capital, our ability to economically recover mineral 
reserves and the impact of geopolitical events. A material change in any of these assumptions could have a significant impact 
on the potential impairment of these assets. 

In performing impairment assessments of long-lived assets, assets that cannot be assessed individually are grouped together 
into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets 
or groups of assets. Management is required to exercise judgment in identifying these cash generating units. 

Taxes 

When we are preparing our financial statements, we estimate taxes in each jurisdiction we operate in, taking into consideration 
different tax rates, non-deductible expenses, valuation of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws and our expectations for 
future results.  

We base our estimates of deferred income taxes on temporary differences between the assets and liabilities we report in our 
financial statements, and the assets and liabilities determined by the tax laws in the various countries we operate in. We 
record deferred income taxes in our financial statements based on our estimated future cash flows, which includes estimates 
of non-deductible expenses, future market conditions, production levels and intercompany sales. If these estimates are not 
accurate, there could be a material impact on our net earnings and financial position. 

Controls and procedures  

We have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2022, as required by the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the Canadian Securities 
Administrators.  

2022 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES     99 

 
Management, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), supervised and participated 
in the evaluation, and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide a reasonable level of 
assurance that the information we are required to disclose in reports we file or submit under securities laws is recorded, 
processed, summarized and reported accurately, and within the time periods specified. It should be noted that, while the CEO 
and CFO believe that our disclosure controls and procedures provide a reasonable level of assurance that they are effective, 
they do not expect the disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting to be capable of 
preventing all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived or operated, can provide only reasonable, not 
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. 

Management, including our CEO and our CFO, is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control over financial 
reporting and conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the Internal 
Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 
December 31, 2022.  

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the year that have materially affected, or are 
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 

New standards adopted 

A number of amendments to existing standards became effective January 1, 2022, but they did not have an effect on our 
financial statements. 

A number of amendments to existing standards are not yet effective for the year ended December 31, 2022, and have not 
been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. We do not intend to early adopt any of the amendments 
and do not expect them to have a material impact on our financial statements. 

100     CAMECO CORPORATION