# Gildan Activewear Inc.
# 来源：Annual MD&A - English.pdf (dd42cd7fae27d658)

2022 
REPORT TO
SHAREHOLDERS
February	23,	2023	

TABLE OF CONTENTS

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
1

PREFACE

2

3

4
5

6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14

15

CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

OUR BUSINESS

3.1 Overview

3.2 Our operations

3.3 Competitive environment

STRATEGY
OPERATING RESULTS

5.1 Non-GAAP financial measures

5.2 Overview and business environment

5.3 Business dispositions/acquisitions

5.4 Selected annual information

5.5 Consolidated operating review

5.6 Summary of quarterly results

5.7

Fourth quarter operating results

FINANCIAL CONDITION
CASH FLOWS
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET APPLIED
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

DEFINITION AND RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

16
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
AUDITED ANNUAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO AUDITED ANNUAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

P. 3

P. 3

P. 5

P. 9
P. 10

P. 22
P. 24
P. 26
P. 30
P. 30
P. 31
P. 32
P. 33
P. 34

P. 35

P. 48
P. 56
P. 62
P. 66

     
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

1.0 PREFACE

In this Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), “Gildan”, the “Company”, or the words “we”, “us”, and “our” refer, 
depending on the context, either to Gildan Activewear Inc. or to Gildan Activewear Inc. together with its subsidiaries.

This  MD&A  comments  on  our  operations,  financial  performance  and  financial  condition  as  at  and  for  the  years  ended 
January  1,  2023  and  January  2,  2022.  All  amounts  in  this  MD&A  are  in  U.S.  dollars,  unless  otherwise  noted.  For  a 
complete  understanding  of  our  business  environment,  trends,  risks  and  uncertainties,  and  the  effect  of  accounting 
estimates  on  our  results  of  operations  and  financial  condition,  this  MD&A  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  Gildan’s 
audited annual consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 1, 2023 and the related notes. 

In preparing this MD&A, we have taken into account all information available to us up to February 23, 2023, the date of 
this  MD&A.  The  audited  annual  consolidated  financial  statements  and  this  MD&A  were  reviewed  by  Gildan’s Audit  and 
Finance Committee and were approved and authorized for issuance by our Board of Directors on February 21, 2023.

All  financial  information  contained  in  this  MD&A  and  in  the  audited  annual  consolidated  financial  statements  has  been 
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (IASB), except for certain information discussed in the section entitled “Definition and reconciliation of 
non-GAAP financial measures” in this MD&A. 

Additional  information  about  Gildan,  including  our  2022  Annual  Information  Form,  is  available  on  our  website  at 
www.gildancorp.com, on the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com, and on the EDGAR section of the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission website (which includes the Annual Report on Form 40-F) at www.sec.gov.

2.0 CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements included in this MD&A constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Canadian securities legislation and regulations and are subject to important 
risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. This forward-looking information includes, amongst others, information with respect 
to our objectives and the strategies to achieve these objectives, as well as information with respect to our beliefs, plans, 
expectations,  anticipations,  estimates,  and  intentions.  In  particular,  information  appearing  under  the  headings  “Our 
business”, “Strategy”, "Operating results", “Liquidity and capital resources - Long-term debt and net debt”, "Financial risk 
management",  and  "Risks  and  uncertainties"  contain  forward  looking  statements.  Forward-looking  statements  generally 
can  be  identified  by  the  use  of  conditional  or  forward-looking  terminology  such  as  “may”,  “will”,  “expect”,  “intend”, 
“estimate”, “project”, “assume”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “foresee”, “believe”, or “continue”, or the negatives of these terms or 
variations  of  them  or  similar  terminology.  We  refer  you  to  the  Company’s  filings  with  the  Canadian  securities  regulatory 
authorities  and  the  U.S.  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  as  well  as  the  risks  described  under  the  “Financial  risk 
management”, “Critical accounting estimates and judgments”, and “Risks and uncertainties” sections of this MD&A for a 
discussion of the various factors that may affect the Company’s future results. Material factors and assumptions that were 
applied in drawing a conclusion or making a forecast or projection are also set out throughout this document. 

Forward-looking information is inherently uncertain and the results or events predicted in such forward-looking information 
may  differ  materially  from  actual  results  or  events.  Material  factors,  which  could  cause  actual  results  or  events  to  differ 
materially from a conclusion, forecast, or projection in such forward-looking information, include, but are not limited to: 

•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•

the magnitude and length of economic disruption as a result of the worldwide coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and 
the appearance of COVID variants, including the reintroduction, scope and duration of government mandated 
general, partial, or targeted private sector shutdowns, travel restrictions, and social distancing measures; 
changes in general economic and financial conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, including 
those resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the appearance of COVID variants;
our  ability  to  implement  our  growth  strategies  and  plans,  including  our  ability  to  bring  projected  capacity  expansion 
online;
our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and realize expected benefits and synergies;
the intensity of competitive activity and our ability to compete effectively;
our reliance on a small number of significant customers;
the fact that our customers do not commit to minimum quantity purchases;
our ability to anticipate, identify, or react to changes in consumer preferences and trends;

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 3

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

our ability to manage production and inventory levels effectively in relation to changes in customer demand;
fluctuations and volatility in the price of raw materials used to manufacture our products, such as cotton, polyester 
fibres, dyes and other chemicals from current levels;
our reliance on key suppliers and our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials, intermediate 
materials and finished goods;
the impact of climate, political, social, and economic risks, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics and endemics, 
such as the COVID-19 pandemic, in the countries in which we operate or sell to, or from which we source production;
disruption to manufacturing and distribution activities due to such factors as operational issues, disruptions in 
transportation logistic functions, labour disruptions, political or social instability, weather-related events, natural 
disasters, epidemics and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and other unforeseen adverse events;
the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial performance and consequently on our ability to 
comply with the financial covenants under our debt agreements;
compliance with applicable trade, competition, taxation, environmental, health and safety, product liability, 
employment, patent and trademark, corporate and securities, licensing and permits, data privacy, bankruptcy, anti-
corruption, and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate;
the imposition of trade remedies, or changes to duties and tariffs, international trade legislation, bilateral and 
multilateral trade agreements and trade preference programs that the Company is currently relying on in conducting 
its manufacturing operations or the application of safeguards thereunder;
factors or circumstances that could increase our effective income tax rate, including the outcome of any tax audits or 
changes to applicable tax laws or treaties, including the implementation of a global minimum tax rate;
changes to and failure to comply with consumer product safety laws and regulations;
changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to domestic and foreign employment laws and 
regulations;
negative publicity as a result of actual, alleged, or perceived violations of human rights, labour and environmental 
laws or international labour standards, or unethical labour or other business practices by the Company or one of its 
third-party contractors;
changes in third-party licensing arrangements and licensed brands;
our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;
operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, security and cyber security 
breaches, disasters, and disruptions due to system upgrades or the integration of systems;
an actual or perceived breach of data security;
our reliance on key management and our ability to attract and/or retain key personnel;
changes in accounting policies and estimates; and
exposure to risks arising from financial instruments, including credit risk on trade accounts receivables and other 
financial instruments, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk, and interest rate risk, as well as risks arising from commodity 
prices.

These factors may cause the Company’s actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from 
any  estimates  or  projections  of  future  performance  or  results  expressed  or  implied  by  such  forward-looking  statements. 
Forward-looking  statements  do  not  take  into  account  the  effect  that  transactions  or  non-recurring  or  other  special  items 
announced or occurring after the statements are made may have on the Company’s business. For example, they do not 
include the effect of business dispositions, acquisitions, other business transactions, asset write-downs, asset impairment 
losses, or other charges announced or occurring after forward-looking statements are made. The financial impact of such 
transactions and non-recurring and other special items can be complex and necessarily depends on the facts particular to 
each of them. 

There can be no assurance that the expectations represented by our forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. 
The purpose of the forward-looking statements is to provide the reader with a description of management’s expectations 
regarding  the  Company’s  future  financial  performance  and  may  not  be  appropriate  for  other  purposes.  Furthermore, 
unless otherwise stated, the forward-looking statements contained in this report are made as of the date hereof, and we 
do not undertake any obligation to update publicly or to revise any of the included forward-looking statements, whether as 
a  result  of  new  information,  future  events,  or  otherwise  unless  required  by  applicable  legislation  or  regulation.  The 
forward-looking statements contained in this report are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 4

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

3.0 OUR BUSINESS

3.1 Overview

Gildan  is  a  leading  vertically  integrated  manufacturer  of  everyday  basic  apparel,  including  activewear,  underwear,  and 
hosiery  products.  Our  products  are  sold  to  wholesale  distributors,  screenprinters  and  embellishers  in  North  America, 
Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America, as well as to retailers in North America, including mass merchants, department 
stores,  national  chains,  specialty  retailers,  craft  stores  and  online  retailers.  We  also  manufacture  products  for  global 
lifestyle brand companies who market these products under their own brands through their own retail establishments, e-
commerce platforms, and/or to third-party retailers.

Manufacturing  and  operating  as  a  socially  responsible  producer  is  at  the  heart  of  what  we  do. The  vast  majority  of  our 
sales  are  derived  from  products  we  manufacture  ourselves.  Since  the  Company’s  formation,  we  have  made  significant 
capital  investments  in  developing  and  operating  our  own  large-scale,  vertically  integrated  manufacturing  facilities, 
including  yarn  production,  textile  and  sock  manufacturing,  as  well  as  sewing  operations,  controlling  all  aspects  of  the 
production process from start to finish for the garments we produce.

We believe the skill set that we have developed in designing, constructing, and operating our own manufacturing facilities, 
the  level  of  vertical  integration  of  our  supply  chain  and  the  capital  investments  that  we  have  made  over  the  years 
differentiate  us  from  our  competition  who  are  not  as  vertically  integrated  and  may  rely  more  heavily  on  third-party 
suppliers. Owning and operating the vast majority of our manufacturing facilities allows us to exercise tighter control over 
our  production  processes,  efficiency  levels,  costs  and  product  quality,  as  well  as  to  provide  reliable  service  with  short 
production/delivery cycle times. In addition, running our own operations allows us to achieve adherence to high standards 
for environmental and social responsibility practices employed throughout our supply chain. 

3.2 Our Operations 

3.2.1 Brands, Products and Customers
The  products  we  manufacture  and  sell  are  marketed  under  Company  brands,  including  Gildan®,  American  Apparel®, 
Comfort Colors®, Gildan® Hammer™, Alstyle® and GoldToe®. Further, we manufacture for and supply products to select 
leading global athletic and lifestyle brands, as well as to certain retail customers who market these products under their 
own exclusive brands. We also sell sock products under the Under Armour® brand through a sock licensing agreement, 
for exclusive distribution in the United States and Canada.

Our primary  product categories include activewear  tops  and  bottoms (activewear), socks (hosiery), and underwear  tops 
and bottoms (underwear).

We sell our activewear products primarily in “blank” or undecorated form, without imprints or embellishment. The majority 
of our activewear sales are currently derived from activewear sold to wholesale distributors in the imprintables channels in 
North  America  and  internationally.  These  wholesale  distributors  then  sell  the  blank  garments  to  screenprinters/
embellishers who decorate the products with designs and logos, and who in turn sell the embellished/imprinted activewear 
into  a  highly  diversified  range  of  end-use  markets.  These  include  educational  institutions,  athletic  dealers,  event 
merchandisers,  promotional  product  distributors,  charitable  organizations,  entertainment  promoters,  travel  and  tourism 
venues, and retailers. The activewear products have diverse applications, such as serving as work or school uniforms or 
athletic team wear or simply conveying individual, group, and team identity. We also sell activewear products in blank form 
directly to various retailers, or through national accounts servicing retailers, in addition to underwear and socks for men, 
ladies, and kids. These retailers include mass merchants, department stores, national chains, sports specialty stores, craft 
stores, food and drug retailers, dollar stores, and price clubs, all of which sell to consumers through their brick and mortar 
outlets  and/or  their  e-commerce  platforms. Additionally,  we  sell  to  pure-play  online  retailers  who  sell  to  consumers.  We 
also  manufacture  for  and  sell  to  select  leading  global  athletic  and  lifestyle  consumer  brand  companies  who  distribute 
these  products  within  the  retail  channel  through  their  own  retail  establishments,  e-commerce  platforms,  and/or  through 
third-party retailers.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 5

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The following table summarizes our product offering under Company and licensed brands:  

Primary product 
categories

Product-line details

Brands

Activewear

T-shirts, fleece tops and bottoms, and 
sport shirts

Gildan®, Gildan Performance®, Gildan® Hammer™, Comfort Colors®, 
American Apparel®, Alstyle®, GoldToe®

Hosiery

athletic, dress, casual and workwear 
socks, liner socks, and socks for 
therapeutic purposes(1)

Gildan®, Under Armour®(2), GoldToe®, PowerSox®,  Signature Gold 
by GoldToe®, Peds®, MediPeds®, All Pro®, American Apparel®

Underwear

men's and boys' underwear (tops and 
bottoms) and ladies panties

Gildan®, Gildan Platinum®

(1) Applicable only to MediPeds®.
(2) Under license agreement for socks only - with exclusive distribution rights in the U.S. and Canada. License expires on March 31, 2024.

3.2.2 Manufacturing 
The vast majority of our products are manufactured in facilities that we own and operate. To a much lesser extent, we also 
use  third-party  contractors  to  supplement  certain  product  requirements.  Our  vertically  integrated  operations  range  from 
start  to  finish  of  the  garment  production  process  and  include  capital-intensive  yarn-spinning,  textile  and  sock 
manufacturing  facilities,  as  well  as  labour-intensive  sewing  facilities.  Our  manufacturing  operations  are  situated  in  four 
main  hubs,  specifically  in  the  United  States,  Central America,  the  Caribbean,  and  Bangladesh. All  of  our  yarn-spinning 
operations are located in the United States, while textile, sewing, and sock manufacturing operations are situated in the 
other geographical hubs mentioned above, the largest of which is in Honduras in Central America.

In  order  to  support  further  sales  growth,  continue  to  drive  an  efficient  and  competitive  cost  structure,  and  enhance 
geographic  diversification  in  our  supply  chain,  we  are  expanding  manufacturing  capacity  across  our  manufacturing 
network,  including  a  significant  expansion  in  Bangladesh,  which  involves  the  development  of  a  large  multi-plant 
manufacturing complex expected to house two large textile facilities and related sewing operations. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 6

The following table provides a summary of our primary manufacturing operations by geographic area:

United States

Central America Caribbean 

Asia

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Yarn-spinning facilities(1):  
conversion of cotton, polyester and other fibres into 
yarn

■ Salisbury, NC 
   (2 facilities) 
■ Mocksville, NC 
■ Eden, NC
■ Clarkton, NC 
■ Sanford, NC
   (2 facilities)
■ Stoneville, NC
■ Cedartown(4), GA

Textile facilities: knitting yarn into fabric, dyeing 
and cutting fabric 

Sewing facilities(2): 
assembly and sewing of cut goods

Garment-dyeing(3):
pigment dyeing or reactive dyeing process 

Hosiery manufacturing facilities:
conversion of yarn into finished socks

■ Dominican 
   Republic

■ Dominican 
   Republic  

(3 facilities) 

■ Bangladesh

■ Bangladesh

■ Honduras
   (4 facilities)

■ Honduras
   (3 facilities)
■ Nicaragua 
   (4 facilities)

■ Honduras

■ Honduras

(1) While the majority of our yarn requirements are internally produced, we also use third-party yarn-spinning suppliers, primarily in the U.S., to satisfy the 
remainder of our yarn needs.
(2) Although the majority of our sewing facilities are Company-operated, we also use the services of third-party sewing contractors, in other regions in Central 
America and Haiti, to satisfy the remainder of our sewing requirements.
(3) Garment dyeing is a feature of our Comfort Colors® products only, which involves a different dyeing process than how we typically dye the majority of our 
products at our textile facilities. Our garment dyeing operations are located in our Rio Nance 3 facility in Honduras.
(4) Closure effective as of February 2023.

3.2.3 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Program

ESG  is  core  to  Gildan’s  long-term  business  strategy  and  has  long-been  a  key  element  of  success. As  one  of  the  most 
vertically  integrated  manufacturers  in  the  apparel  industry,  producing  the  vast  majority  of  the  products  we  sell  in  our 
owned and/or Company-operated facilities, we have the advantage of exercising direct control on how we operate and in 
driving our ESG practices consistently across our operations.

The Company's ESG program is overseen centrally and the execution of the program is managed by dedicated teams of 
skilled professionals located in the regions where we operate. Our Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance and Social 
Responsibility  Committee,  composed  of  independent  directors,  has  the  specific  responsibility  of  overseeing  Gildan’s 
policies  and  practices  in  areas  relevant  to  the  environment,  labour  and  human  rights,  health  and  safety,  and  other 
sustainability issues, including community engagement and stakeholder relations. 

Building on a strong foundation of best-in-class ESG practices, at the beginning of 2022, the Company unveiled its “Next 
Generation ESG” strategy, an enhanced framework designed to deliver meaningful advancements by 2030 in key areas 
related  to  Climate,  Energy,  and  Water;  Circularity;  Human  Capital  Management;  Long-Term  Value  Creation;  and 
Transparency and Disclosure. Under this strategy, Gildan seeks to tackle global environmental and social priorities aimed 
at improving the lives of people who make Gildan garments, further protecting the environment, empowering neighboring 
communities, and increasing the sustainability of products delivered to customers worldwide. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 7

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The Company's targets and objectives in the five key focus areas of its Next Generation ESG strategy are as follows:

•

•

•

•

•

Climate, Energy, and Water
Gildan is committed to continuing its fight against climate change by paving the way towards a low carbon future, with 
a goal of reducing its scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 30% by 20301 aligned with the Science 
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and the level of decarbonization required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. To 
that effect, Gildan has signed the SBTi commitment letter, joining companies worldwide in following a science-based 
approach  in  reducing  carbon  emissions.  SBTi  is  currently  in  the  process  of  validating  our  targets.  Gildan  is  also 
committed to addressing water related risks linked to climate change. The Company plans to further invest in water 
efficiency and implement additional water reducing, reusing, and recycling options in its operations with the goal to 
reduce water intensity (usage/withdrawal per kilogram produced) by 20% by 20301.

Circularity
Gildan is committed to fostering a circular economy to reduce its environmental impact and intends to source more 
sustainable and transparent raw materials and enhance sustainable waste management initiatives. This will include 
sourcing  100%  sustainable  cotton  by  2025  and  30%  recycled  polyester  or  alternative  fibers  and/or  yarns  by  2027. 
The  Company  also  plans  to  achieve  zero  manufacturing  waste  by  2027  and  to  use  75%  recycled  or  sustainable 
packaging and trim materials by 2027.

Human Capital Management
The Company will continue ensuring human rights are respected in its supply chain. Gildan will also push health and 
safety performance to new standards by working to improve employee safety and reducing workplace risks across its 
operations. To achieve this, Gildan plans to attain the ISO 45001 certification at all its Company-owned and operated 
facilities by 2028.

On  diversity,  equity,  and  inclusion,  the  Company  set  a  first-time  goal  to  improve  gender  parity.  While  Gildan  has 
already attained gender parity globally at the manager level and below, by 2027 it is targeting to achieve gender parity 
within the employee group encompassing director level and above. 

Long-Term Value Creation
Gildan  is  committed  to  positively  impacting  economic  development  in  regions  where  the  Company  operates  with 
meaningful community engagement. Gildan intends to incrementally increase allocation of capital towards purposeful 
and value-driven projects in regions where the Company operates and plans to gradually reach a contribution of 1% 
of its pre-tax earnings by 2026. In parallel, the Company will also engage one of its most important stakeholders, its 
people, and continue to facilitate and encourage employee volunteerism at all levels to further deepen local impact.

Transparency and Disclosure
A  key  part  of  Gildan’s  accountability  in  reaching  these  targets  will  be  to  transparently  share  the  journey  with 
stakeholders. To that effect, Gildan plans to further enhance and strengthen its ESG disclosure across all its areas of 
focus,  effectively  allowing  stakeholders  to  make  more  informed  ESG-focused  decisions  and  maintaining  a  high 
degree of trust and understanding of Gildan.

2022 ESG highlights and recognitions
Progress  against  our  strategic  roadmaps  included  some  of  the  following  key  milestones:  the  inclusion  of  sustainability-
linked  terms  to  our  existing  $1-billion  revolving  credit  facility  and  the  linking  of  executive  compensation  to  the 
advancements of ESG targets. Gildan also published its first stand-alone Climate Change Disclosure Report structured in 
accordance  with  the  Task  Force  on  Climate-Related  Financial  Disclosures  (TCFD)  framework,  highlighting  how  we 
assess,  prepare  and  integrate  climate-related  matters  into  our  business  processes.  This  represented  a  significant  step 
forward towards fully aligning with the TCFD framework by 2025. In 2022, Gildan also continued to be recognized for its 
sustainability leadership as one of the world’s 100 most sustainable corporations and one of Canada’s best 50 corporate 
citizens  by  Corporate  Knights.  In  addition,  2022  marked  Gildan’s  tenth  consecutive  inclusion  on  the  Dow  Jones 
Sustainability Index and its third inclusion on CDP’s leadership band for its 2022 climate change disclosures. Finally,  in 
2022 Gildan launched Gildan Respects™ a broad marketing campaign to share and elevate our ESG story in a thoughtful 
and authentic manner.  

1  

Compared to a 2018 baseline

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 8

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

3.2.4 Sales, marketing and distribution 

Our global sales and marketing office is located in Christ Church, Barbados, out of which we have established customer-
related  functions,  including  sales  management,  marketing,  customer  service,  credit  management,  sales  forecasting, 
production  planning,  inventory  control  and  logistics,  as  well  as  supporting  finance,  human  resources  and  information 
technology  functions.  We  also  maintain  sales  support  offices  in  the  U.S.  We  have  established  extensive  distribution 
operations primarily through internally managed and operated large distribution centers and some smaller facilities in the 
U.S., as well as a large distribution facility in Honduras. To supplement some of our distribution needs, we also use third-
party warehouses in North America, Europe, and Asia.

3.2.5 Employees and corporate office 

We  currently  employ  approximately  51,000  employees  worldwide.  Our  corporate  head  office  is  located  in  Montreal, 
Canada.

3.3 Competitive environment

The basic apparel market for our products is highly competitive. Competition is generally based upon service and product 
availability,  price,  quality,  comfort  and  fit,  style,  and  brand.  We  compete  on  these  factors  by  leveraging  our  competitive 
strengths,  including  our  strategically  located  and  vertically  integrated  manufacturing  supply  chain,  scale,  cost  structure, 
global  distribution,  and  our  brand  positioning  in  the  markets  we  serve.  We  believe  our  manufacturing  skill  set,  together 
with  our  large-scale,  low-cost  vertically  integrated  supply  chain  infrastructure  that  we  have  developed  by  investing 
significantly over time are key competitive strengths and differentiators from our competition.  

We face competition from large and smaller U.S.-based and foreign manufacturers or suppliers of basic family apparel. 
Among  the  larger  competing  North American-based  manufacturers  are  Hanesbrands  Inc.,  as  well  as  Fruit  of  the  Loom, 
Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. which competes through its own brand offerings and those of its subsidiary, 
Russell  Corporation.  These  companies  manufacture  out  of  some  of  the  same  geographies  as  Gildan  and  compete 
primarily  within  the  same  basic  apparel  product  categories  in  similar  channels  of  distribution  in  North  America  and 
international  markets.  In  socks  and  underwear,  our  competitors  also  include  Renfro  Corporation,  Jockey  International, 
Inc., and Kayser Roth Corporation. In addition, we compete with smaller U.S.-based companies selling to or operating as 
wholesale distributors of imprintables activewear products, including Next Level Apparel, Color Image Apparel, Inc. (owner 
of the Bella + Canvas brand), and Delta Apparel Inc., as well as Central American and Mexican manufacturers that supply 
products in the imprintables channel. Finally, although we also compete with some of our customers' own private brand 
offerings, we also supply products to certain customers that are seeking strategic suppliers with our type of manufacturing 
capabilities to support their private brand offerings. 

4.0 STRATEGY 

Gildan Sustainable Growth Strategy 
Building on a strong foundation, in 2022 the Company launched its “Gildan Sustainable Growth” (GSG) strategy focused 
on driving organic top and bottom-line growth through three key pillars – capacity expansion, innovation, and ESG. We 
believe  that  by  leveraging  our  competitive  advantage  as  a  low-cost,  vertically  integrated  manufacturer  and  successfully 
executing on well-defined capacity expansion plans, delivering value-driven and innovative products, and through leading 
ESG practices we will be well positioned to drive strong revenue growth, profitability and effective asset utilization, all of 
which are expected to allow us to deliver compelling shareholder value creation.

The three pillars of our GSG strategy are: 

Capacity-driven growth: Leveraging our strong competitive advantage as a low-cost vertically integrated manufacturer 
as we execute on well-defined plans to expand our global production capacity to support our long-term growth plans

To this end, we have added incremental textile and sewing capacity in our manufacturing hubs in Central America and the 
Dominican  Republic.  Through  the  acquisition  of  Frontier  Yarns,  we  have  strengthened  our  vertical  integration  by 
expanding  our  yarn-spinning  capabilities.  We  are  also  in  the  process  of  consolidating  and  modernizing  our  overall  U.S. 
yarn  spinning  operations. Additionally,  the  Company  is  executing  on  the  first  phase  of  development  of  a  large  vertically 
integrated  textile  and  sewing  complex  in  Bangladesh,  as  described  in  more  detail  in  subsection  3.2.2  entitled 
"Manufacturing" in this MD&A.  

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 9

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Innovation: Driving leadership in innovation across the organization and all areas of operations aimed at delivering high-
quality, value-driven products, increased speed-to-market, operational efficiencies and a reduced environmental footprint

The Company has identified and defined specific key initiatives, as well as investments aimed at driving innovation in our 
product-development  and  manufacturing  processes,  distribution  and  final  products,  including  fabric  features,  product  fit, 
fabric adaptability to evolving printing and decorating techniques, and ESG-friendly product attributes. Further investments 
will also be allocated to leverage digital tools, predictive analytics and artificial intelligence to better inform and accelerate 
decision-making  across  the  organization,  streamline  systems  and  processes,  and  enhance  planning,  forecasting  and 
market research.

ESG:  Further  increasing  our  ESG  focus  across  all  operations  and  leveraging  our  strong  ESG  standing  and  progress  to 
enhance our value proposition to all our stakeholders

With  the  launch  of  our  Next  Generation  ESG  strategy  and  the  introduction  of  new  long-term  ESG  targets,  we  are 
heightening ESG efforts across the organization. Initiatives under our strategy are aimed at reducing our carbon footprint, 
and water intensity (usage/withdrawal per kilogram produced), and fostering a circular economy, while driving increased 
operational efficiencies. Additional initiatives build on supporting economic development in regions where we operate and 
ensuring strong respect of human rights and high health and safety standards throughout our supply chain. Further, we 
will  be  increasing  investment  in  our  people,  driving  diversity  and  inclusion  across  our  operations  and  enhancing  ESG 
disclosure and transparency. All important areas of focus as we build on what is already a strong ESG proposition for all 
stakeholders.

Successfully executing on all of the above initiatives underpinning the three pillars of our strategy is expected to position 
the Company to generate long-term revenue growth, sustained profitability and effective asset utilization, all of which are 
expected to deliver long-term value to our shareholders.  

5.0 OPERATING RESULTS

This MD&A comments on our operations, financial performance, and financial condition as at and for the fiscal year ended 
January 1, 2023 (fiscal 2022) and the fiscal year ended January 2, 2022 (fiscal 2021). 

5.1 Non-GAAP financial measures

We use non-GAAP financial measures and ratios to assess our operating performance and liquidity. Securities regulations 
require that companies caution readers that earnings and other measures adjusted to a basis other than IFRS do not have 
standardized  meanings  and  are  unlikely  to  be  comparable  to  similar  measures  used  by  other  companies. Accordingly, 
they  should  not  be  considered  in  isolation.  In  this  MD&A,  we  use  non-GAAP  financial  measures  and  ratios  including 
adjusted  net  earnings,  adjusted  diluted  EPS,  adjusted  gross  profit,  adjusted  gross  margin,  adjusted  operating  income, 
adjusted operating margin, adjusted EBITDA and return on adjusted average net assets (Adjusted RONA) to measure our 
performance  and  financial  condition  from  one  period  to  the  next,  which  excludes  the  variation  caused  by  certain 
adjustments  that  could  potentially  distort  the  analysis  of  trends  in  our  operating  performance,  and  because  we  believe 
such  measures  provide  meaningful  information  to  investors  on  the  Company’s  financial  performance  and  financial 
condition. We also use non-GAAP financial measures including free cash flow, total debt, net debt, net debt leverage ratio 
and working capital.

We refer the reader to section 16.0 entitled “Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures” in this MD&A 
for the definition and complete reconciliation of all non-GAAP financial measures used and presented by the Company to 
the most directly comparable IFRS measures. 

5.2 Overview and business environment

In 2022, activewear sold to wholesale distributors, servicing the imprintables industry, benefited from the continued post-
pandemic recovery and the comeback of large gatherings, while activewear sold through our National account customers, 
servicing retail end-markets, were hampered by a softening demand environment and ongoing inventory adjustments at 
retailers. Our international markets continued to be impacted by difficult economic conditions in Europe and Asia, and the 
strict  Covid  policy  prevailing  in  China  until  late  2022.  Further,  as  we  moved  through  the  year,  our  customers  were 
managing their inventory levels more cautiously, reflecting the prevalent economic uncertainty. While we are encouraged 
by  the  continued  recovery  we  have  seen  in  our  business,  we  believe  demand  levels  have  not  yet  normalized  in  all  our 
end-markets to pre-pandemic levels, on an annualized basis. Nevertheless, with our capacity investments in both yarn-

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 10

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

spinning and textile operations, we increased our manufacturing flexibility enabling us to support our customer’s needs, 
shifting  gears  from  the  tight  manufacturing  environment  experienced  in  2021.  We  have  also  rebuilt  our  inventories  to 
healthier levels and strengthened our relationships with distributors by improving serviceability. We managed successfully, 
adapting  to  a  changing  environment,  and  delivering  strong  profitability  by  mitigating  inflationary  pressure  through  tight 
control over our vertically integrated supply chain, and through effective pricing decisions. We are executing on our capital 
allocation strategy, investing in capital projects, and returning capital to shareholders through dividends and active share 
repurchases, while maintaining a healthy financial position throughout the year. We are pleased with the execution of our 
"Gildan  Sustainable  Growth"  (GSG)  strategy  which  was  instrumental  in  our  ability  to  deliver  strong  results  in  2022.  We 
believe we are well positioned to drive growth under the "Gildan Sustainable Growth" strategy, described in section 4 of 
this  MD&A.  While  we  believe  our  vertically-integrated  manufacturing  model  facilitates  our  ability  to  navigate  through 
various headwinds impacting the current market landscape, it is difficult to predict the impact on our business due to the 
lagging effects of the pandemic, inflationary pressures, increased recessionary risks and other factors.

5.3 Business dispositions/acquisitions

Fiscal 2022 (year ended January 1, 2023)

During  fiscal  2022  the  Company  sold  a  yarn  spinning  facility  located  in  the  U.S.,  which  was  the  smallest  of  the  four 
facilities that the Company acquired on December 10, 2021 as part of the Frontier Yarns acquisition. The sale included the 
disposition of inventory, equipment, goodwill and the transfer of a leasehold interest and related lease liability. Please refer 
to note 5 to the 2022 audited annual consolidated financial statements. 

During  the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2022,  the  Company  sold  its  sheer  inventory  and  trademarks  for  total  proceeds  of 
$6 million, of which $1 million is being held in escrow subject to certain post-closing matters. The gain on disposal of these 
assets was insignificant.  

Fiscal 2021 (year ended January 2, 2022)

On December 10, 2021, the Company acquired 100% of the equity interest of Phoenix Sanford, LLC, the parent company 
of Frontier Yarns, for cash consideration (net of cash acquired and net of the settlement of pre-existing relationships) of 
$164  million. At  the  time  of  the  acquisition,  Frontier  Yarns  operations  included  four  facilities  located  in  North  Carolina. 
During 2021, approximately 40% of Frontier's production was dedicated to yarn sold to Gildan for textile manufacturing in 
Central  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  acquisition  will  allow  the  Company  to  build  on  its  global  vertically  integrated 
supply chain through further internalizing yarn production and is expected to support incremental yarn needs for Gildan’s 
textile capacity expansion plans in Central America and the Caribbean. 

The audited annual consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2021 included the results of Frontier from December 11, 
2021 to January 2, 2022. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 11

5.4 Select annual information 

(in $ millions, except per share amounts or 

otherwise indicated) 

2022 

2021 

2020 

$

%

$

%

Variation 2022-2021

Variation 2021-2020

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

  3,240.5 

  2,922.6 

  1,981.3 

317.9 

 10.9 %  

940.2 

903.0 

314.2 

(2.6) 

8.2 

249.1 

305.7 

272.3 

15.5 

48.2 

52.2 

62.5 

9.9 

 5.6 %  

 6.9 %  

 3.2 %  

941.3 

691.1 

597.3 

41.9 

 47.5 %

n.m.

n.m.

 15.4 %

4.8 

n.m.  

(18.1) 

n.m.

(7.7) 

 (93.9) %  

(40.0) 

 (83.0) %

Net sales

Gross profit
Adjusted gross profit(1)

SG&A expenses

Impairment (Reversal of impairment) of trade 

accounts receivable

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 
(Impairment reversal of intangible assets, 
net of write-downs)

Operating income (loss)

Adjusted operating income(1)

Adjusted EBITDA(1)

Financial expenses

Income tax expense (recovery)  

Net earnings (loss)

Adjusted net earnings (loss)(1)

Basic EPS (Loss per share)

Diluted EPS

Adjusted diluted EPS(1)

Gross margin(2)

Adjusted gross margin(1)

SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales(3)

Operating margin(4)

Adjusted operating margin(1)

992.4 

965.5 

324.1 

2.2 

0.5 

62.3 

603.4 

639.3 

764.2 

37.0 

24.9 

541.5 

574.7 

2.94 

2.93 

3.11 

 30.6 %

 29.8 %

 10.0 %

 18.6 %

 19.7 %

(31.5) 

94.0 

93.8 

n.m.  

(125.5) 

651.9 

591.4 

726.8 

27.3 

17.4 

607.2 

538.1 

3.08 

3.07 

2.72 

 32.2 %

 30.9 %

 10.8 %

 22.3 %

 20.2 %

(180.8) 

(48.5) 

 (7.4) %  

832.7 

18.0 

165.1 

48.5 

(4.1) 

47.9 

37.4 

9.7 

7.5 

 8.1 %  

573.4 

 5.1 %  

561.7 

 35.5 %  

(21.2) 

 (43.7) %

 43.1 %  

21.5 

(225.3) 

(65.7) 

 (10.8) %  

832.5 

 6.8 %  

574.4 

(36.3) 

(1.14) 

(1.14) 

(0.18) 

 12.6 %

 15.3 %

 13.7 %

 (9.1) %

 0.9 %

36.6 

(0.14) 

(0.14) 

 (4.5) %  

 (4.6) %  

0.39 

 14.3 %  

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

(1.6) pp

(1.1) pp

(0.8) pp

(3.7) pp

(0.5) pp

4.22 

4.21 

2.90 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

n.m.

19.6 pp

15.6 pp

(2.9) pp

31.4 pp

19.3 pp

Total assets

  3,440.2 

  3,136.7 

  3,020.9 

Total non-current financial liabilities
Net debt(1)

Diluted weighted average number of 

780.0 

873.6 

600.0 

  1,000.0 

529.9 

577.2 

303.5 

180.0 

343.7 

 9.7 %  

115.8 

 3.8 %

 30.0 %  

(400.0) 

 (40.0) %

 64.9 %  

(47.3) 

 (8.2) %

common shares outstanding (in ‘000s)

  184,532 

  197,595 

  198,361 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Return on adjusted average net assets 

(Adjusted RONA)(1)

Annual cash dividends declared per common 

share

Net debt leverage ratio(1)

 21.0 %

 23.1 %

 1.0 %

n/a

(2.1) pp

n/a

22.1 pp

0.676 

0.462 

0.154 

0.214 

 46.3 %  

0.308 

1.1 

0.7 

3.5 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n.m.

n/a

n.m. = not meaningful
n/a = not applicable
(1) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.
(2) Gross margin is defined as gross profit divided by net sales. 
(3) SG&A as a percentage of sales is defined as SG&A divided by net sales.
(4) Operating margin is defined as operating income (loss) divided by net sales.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 12

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

5.5 Consolidated operating review

5.5.1 Net sales

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

2022   

2021   

2020 

$

%

$

%

Activewear
Hosiery and underwear(1)

2,762.5   

2,364.7   

1,498.4   

397.8 

 16.8 %  

866.3 

 57.8 %

478.0   

557.8   

482.9   

(79.8) 

 (14.3) %  

74.9 

 15.5 %

Total net sales

3,240.5   

2,922.5   

1,981.3   

318.0 

 10.9 %  

941.2 

 47.5 %

Variation 2022-2021 Variation 2021-2020

(1) Also includes intimates and other fringe products.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary. 

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021
Record net sales for the year ended January 1, 2023, were $3,240 million in 2022, up 10.9% over the same period last 
year, reflecting an increase in activewear sales, partly offset by lower sales in the hosiery and underwear category. The 
year-over-year increase in activewear sales was primarily driven by higher net selling prices which were up on average in 
the  mid-teen  range,  and  favourable  product-mix.  While  sales  volumes  were  up  in  the  first  nine  months  reflecting  the 
continuing  demand  recovery  in  imprintables  and  the  impact  of  higher  distributor  replenishment  to  rebuild  inventories  to 
more optimal levels (as customer inventories were impacted by our production constraints due to the 2020 hurricanes in 
Central America and yarn labour shortages), these volume increases were offset in the fourth quarter by the absence of 
inventory replenishment versus a year ago and lower point of sales ("POS") mainly in retail end-markets. The decline in 
the hosiery and underwear category, where we generated sales of $478 million, primarily reflected the impact of lower unit 
sales  volumes  due  to  weaker  demand  in  retail  and  the  continued  impact  of  tight  inventory  management  at  the  retailer 
level.

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020
Record net sales in 2021 reflected a significant recovery in demand from 2020, which had been hard hit by the effects of 
the  onset  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  The  year-over-year  increase  in  activewear  sales  where  we  generated  sales  of 
$2,365 million was due to strong volume increases in all channels, favourable product-mix and higher net selling prices. 
Higher  imprintables  sales  volumes  were  driven  by  a  strong  recovery  in  POS  and  the  impact  of  the  non-recurrence  of 
significant  inventory  de-stocking  by  distributors  which  occurred  in  2020.  The  overall  sales  increase  in  the  hosiery  and 
underwear category where we generated $558 million was also driven by higher sales volumes in both underwear and in 
sock products compared to last year, as well as favourable product mix.

Compared  to  2019,  fiscal  2020  overall  net  sales  growth  showed  improvement  through  the  year,  with  net  sales  in  the 
second half and for the full year above pre-pandemic levels.

5.5.2 Gross profit/margin and adjusted gross profit/margin

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Gross profit
Adjustment for:
  Impact of strategic product line initiatives(1)

Discontinuance of PPE SKUs(1)
Net insurance gains(1)
Adjusted gross profit(2)
Gross margin
Adjusted gross margin(2)

2022 

992.4 

(1.0) 
— 
(25.9) 
965.5 

 30.6 %
 29.8 %

2021 

940.2 

2020 

249.1 

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

52.2   

691.1 

8.8 
— 
(46.0) 
903.0 

 32.2 %
 30.9 %

60.0 
6.2 
(9.6) 
305.7 

 12.6 %
 15.3 %

(9.8)  
—   
20.1   
62.5   

(1.6) pp
(1.1) pp

(51.2) 
(6.2) 
(36.4) 
597.3 
19.6 pp
15.6 pp

(1)  See  subsection  entitled  "Certain  adjustments  to  non-GAAP  measures"  for  additional  information  on  adjustments  in  section  16.0 
"Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this MD&A.
(2) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Gross profit is the result of our net sales less cost of sales. Gross margin reflects gross profit as a percentage of sales. 
Our  cost  of  sales  includes  all  raw  material  costs,  manufacturing  conversion  costs,  including  manufacturing  depreciation 
expense, sourcing costs, inbound freight and inter-facility transportation costs, and outbound freight to customers. Cost of 
sales also includes the costs of purchased finished goods, costs relating to purchasing, receiving and inspection activities, 
manufacturing  administration,  third-party  manufacturing  services,  sales-based  royalty  costs,  insurance,  inventory  write-
downs,  and  duties,  as  well  as  net  insurance  gains  as  described  in  note  17c  to  the  audited  consolidated  financial 
statements  as  at  and  for  the  year  ended  January  1,  2023.  Our  reporting  of  gross  profit  and  gross  margin  may  not  be 
comparable to these metrics as reported by other companies, since some entities include warehousing and handling costs 
and/or exclude depreciation expense, outbound freight to customers, and royalty costs from cost of sales.

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021
The  increase  in  gross  profit  and  non-GAAP  adjusted  gross  profit  in  fiscal  2022  reflected  higher  sales  partially  offset  by 
lower margins. The decline in GAAP gross margin mainly reflected lower net insurance gains compared to last year (2022: 
$26 million, 2021: $46 million) which had a 70 basis point impact on margins. These net insurance gains resulted  from 
accrued  insurance  recoveries  from  the  Company's  claim  for  losses  relating  to  the  two  hurricanes  in  Central America  in 
November  2020.  Both  the  GAAP  gross  margin  and  the  adjusted  gross  margin  reflected  higher  fiber  costs  and  other 
manufacturing  costs,  which  more  than  offset  the  benefit  of  higher  net  selling  prices  and  favourable  product  mix.  The 
change in GAAP and adjusted gross margins also reflected an $18 million or 60 basis point impact of the non-recurrence 
of  a  one-time  USDA  payment  in  connection  to  its  Pandemic Assistance  for  Cotton  Users  program  recorded  in  the  first 
quarter of 2021.  

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 
The  increase  in  gross  and  adjusted  gross  profit  in  fiscal  2021  reflected  the  meaningful  recovery  in  sales  and  a  19.6 
percentage point increase in gross margin and a 15.6 percentage point increase in adjusted gross margin compared to 
fiscal  2020. The  significant  year-over-year  improvement  in  gross  and  adjusted  gross  margin  was  mainly  due  to  a  much 
stronger product-mix, the non-recurrence of COVID and certain Back to Basics related charges incurred primarily in the 
first half of 2020, higher net selling prices, cost benefits from our Back to Basics initiatives and lower raw material costs. 
The improvement in gross margin in 2021 also included the recognition of higher net insurance gains of $36 million related 
to the 2020 hurricanes, as well as lower year-over-year SKU rationalization charges.

5.5.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A)

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

SG&A expenses
SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales

2022 

324.1 

2021 

314.2 

2020 

272.3 

 10.0 %

 10.8 %

 13.7 %

(0.8) pp

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

9.9   

41.9 
(2.9) pp

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 
The  $10  million  increase  in  SG&A  expenses  in  fiscal  2022  compared  to  fiscal  2021  was  primarily  due  to  the  impact  of 
inflation on overall costs, partially offset by lower variable compensation expenses and the benefit of our cost containment 
measures. As a percentage of sales, the 80 basis point improvement in SG&A expenses primarily reflected the benefit of 
sales leverage.

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 
The $42 million increase in SG&A expenses in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily due to higher variable 
compensation expenses and higher volume-driven distribution costs, partly offset by cost savings stemming from our Back 
to  Basics  initiatives.  The  290-basis  point  improvement  in  SG&A  expenses  as  a  percentage  of  sales  in  fiscal  2021 
compared to fiscal 2020 reflected the benefit of volume leverage and unit cost efficiencies. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 14

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

5.5.4 Impairment of trade accounts receivable
An  impairment  of  trade  accounts  receivable  of  $2  million  was  recorded  in  fiscal  2022,  compared  to  a  reversal  of 
impairment of trade accounts receivable of $3 million in fiscal 2021 and an impairment of trade accounts receivable of $16 
million in fiscal 2020. The impairment of trade accounts receivable for fiscal 2022, is mainly related to specific provisions 
on  higher  risk  customers,  partially  offset  by  lower  provisions  on  lower  risk  customers  due  to  the  decrease  in  trade 
accounts receivable. During fiscal 2021, the Company adjusted its provision matrix to decrease expected credit loss rates 
as the economic environment improved, resulting in a $3 million reversal of impairment of trade accounts receivable. The 
impairment of trade accounts receivable in fiscal 2020 of $16 million was mainly related to an increase in the estimate of 
expected credit losses (ECLs) attributable to the heightened credit risk caused by the economic conditions related to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 

5.5.5 Restructuring and acquisition-related costs 

(in $ millions)

Employee termination and benefit costs

Exit, relocation and other costs

Net (gain) loss on disposal, write-downs and accelerated 

depreciation of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use 
assets, and software related to exit activities

Acquisition-related transaction costs
Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

2022

2021

2020

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

1.0   

2.2   

0.3   

10.9   

3.3   

13.3   

0.7   

(1.1)  

(10.6) 

(10.0) 

(3.3)  
0.6   
0.5   

3.1   
1.5   
8.2   

23.9   
—   
48.1   

(6.4)  
(0.9)  
(7.7)  

(20.8) 
1.5 
(39.9) 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs are comprised of costs directly related to significant exit activities, including the 
closure of business locations or the relocation of business activities, significant changes in management structure, as well 
as transaction, exit, and integration costs incurred pursuant to business acquisitions.

Restructuring  and  acquisition-related  costs  in  fiscal  2022  related  to  the  following:  $5  million  for  the  closure  of  a  yarn-
spinning plant in the U.S, $2 million in accelerated depreciation of right-of-use assets relating to facilities no longer in use, 
$1  million  in  employee  termination  and  benefit  costs  related  to  the  closure  of  a  distribution  center  in  the  U.S.,  as  well 
$2  million  related  to  the  completion  of  previously  initiated  restructuring  activities,  partly  offset  by  a  gain  of $6  million  on 
business dispositions (refer to note 5 of the consolidated financial statements), and a gain of $3 million on the sale of a 
former manufacturing facility in Mexico.

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs in fiscal 2021 related to the following: $4 million for post-closure costs relating 
to the Company's former textile manufacturing and sewing operations in Mexico; $2 million for a yarn-spinning plant in the 
U.S., that was closed in 2020, including a lease exit charge; $1 million in transaction costs incurred in connection with the 
acquisition of Frontier Yarns; and $1 million in other costs, to complete restructuring activities that were initiated in prior 
years.

Restructuring  and  acquisition-related  costs  in  fiscal  2020  related  to  the  following:  $23  million  for  the  closure  of  a  yarn-
spinning  plant  in  the  U.S.,  including  accelerated  depreciation  of  right-of-use  assets  and  equipment;  $11  million  for  the 
closure  of  textile  manufacturing  and  sewing  operations  in  Mexico;  $6  million  for  the  exit  of  ship-to-the-piece  activities, 
including computer software write-downs and warehouse consolidation costs; $2 million for SG&A workforce reductions; 
and $7 million in other costs, including costs incurred to complete restructuring activities that were initiated in fiscal 2019.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 15

 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

5.5.6 Impairment of intangible assets/(Impairment reversal of intangible assets, net of write downs)

During fiscal 2022, based on the results of the impairment test performed on January 1, 2023, we recorded an impairment 
charge for our hosiery cash-generating unit (CGU) of $62 million, relating to intangible assets (both definite and indefinite 
life)  acquired  in  previous  business  acquisitions,  as  described  in  note  11  to  the  audited  annual  consolidated  financial 
statements  for  the  year  ended  January  1,  2023.  The  impairment  charge  results  from  a  decline  in  the  fair  value  of  the 
Hosiery CGU, mainly due to the impact of the current macroeconomic environment on market conditions.

During fiscal 2021, based on the results of the impairment test performed on January 2, 2022, the estimated recoverable 
amount  for  the  Hosiery  cash-generating  unit  (CGU)  was  in  excess  of  its  carrying  value,  and  as  such  the  Company 
recorded  an  impairment  reversal  of  $56  million  at  January  2,  2022,  relating  to  intangible  assets  (both  definite  and 
indefinite  life)  acquired  in  previous  business  acquisitions,  as  described  in  note  11  to  the  audited  annual  consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended January 1, 2023. The events and circumstances that led to this reversal included 
improved margins and forecasted earnings, as well as the improvement of the economic environment and the prevailing 
outlook  for  this  category.  The  Company  also  wrote  off  certain  intangible  assets  of  $24  million,  that  were  assessed  as 
having  no  future  economic  benefit.  These  asset  write-offs  related  to  the  Company’s  plan  to  exit  its  sheer  panty  hose, 
tights,  leggings,  ladies  shapewear,  intimates,  and  accessories  products,  marketed  under  the  Secret®,  Silks®,  Secret 
Silky® and Therapy Plus® brands. 

During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, due to the adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on global economic activity 
and  enterprise  values  of  companies  worldwide,  including  its  impact  on  the  Company’s  business  and  share  price,  we 
recorded  an  impairment  charge  for  our  Hosiery  CGU  of  $94  million,  relating  to  goodwill  and  intangible  assets  acquired 
during previous sock and hosiery business acquisitions.

5.5.7 Operating income and adjusted operating income

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Operating income (loss)
Adjustment for:

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs(1)
Impairment of intangible assets (Impairment 
reversal of intangible assets, net of write-
downs)(1)

Impact of strategic product line initiatives
Discontinuance of PPE SKUs
Net insurance gains
Adjusted operating income(2)

Operating margin
Adjusted operating margin(2)

2022 

603.4 

2021 

651.9 

2020 

(180.8) 

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

(48.5)  

832.7 

0.5 

8.2 

48.2 

(7.7)  

(40.0) 

62.3 
(1.0) 
— 
(25.9) 
639.3 

(31.5) 
8.8 
— 
(46.0) 
591.4 

94.0 
60.0 
6.2 
(9.6) 
18.0 

93.8   
(9.8)  
—   
20.1   
47.9   

(125.5) 
(51.2) 
(6.2) 
(36.4) 
573.4 

 18.6 %
 19.7 %

 22.3 %
 20.2 %

 (9.1) %
 0.9 %

(3.7) pp
(0.5) pp

31.4 pp
19.3 pp

(1)  See  subsection  entitled  "Certain  adjustments  to  non-GAAP  measures"  for  additional  information  on  adjustments  in  section  16.0 
"Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this MD&A.
(2) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary. 

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021
The  decline  in  operating  income  reflected  the  non-cash  impairment  charge  for  our  hosiery  cash-generating  unit  (CGU) 
taken  in  the  fourth  quarter  compared  to  a  reversal  of  impairment  last  year  and  lower  insurance  accounting  gains 
compared  to  last  year  (which  accounted  for  most  of  the  decline  in  operating  margin),  which  more  than  offset  the 
contribution from higher sales. On an adjusted basis, we generated higher operating income which was driven primarily by 
the year-over-year increase in sales, partly offset by a lower adjusted operating margin. The decrease of 50 basis points 
on an adjusted basis largely reflected lower gross margins which offset the benefit of SG&A sales leverage.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 16

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020
The improvement in operating and adjusted operating income in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was mainly due to 
the  significant  year-over-year  sales  recovery,  strong  gross  and  adjusted  gross  margin  performance,  partially  offset  by 
higher SG&A expenses. The operating income increase in fiscal 2021 was also due to lower restructuring and acquisition-
related costs and the benefit of the reversal of impairment of intangible assets in fiscal 2021 compared to a charge for the 
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets recognized in fiscal 2020. 

5.5.8 Financial expenses, net

(in $ millions)

Interest expense on financial liabilities recorded at 

amortized cost

Bank and other financial charges 
Interest accretion on discounted lease obligation
Interest accretion on discounted provisions
Foreign exchange (gain) loss
Financial expenses, net

2022

2021

2020

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

25.7   
10.5   
3.1   
—   
(2.3)  
37.0   

14.9   
8.8   
2.6   
0.2   
0.8   
27.3   

30.2   
14.6   
3.2   
0.2   
0.2   
48.4   

10.8   
1.7   
0.5   
(0.2)  
(3.1)  
9.7   

(15.3) 
(5.8) 
(0.6) 
— 
0.6 
(21.1) 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021
The  increase  in  interest  expense  in  fiscal  2022  compared  to  fiscal  2021  was  mainly  due  to  higher  average  borrowing 
levels, as well as the impact of higher interest rates. The increase in bank and other financial charges was mainly due to 
higher fees incurred relating to increased volumes in our receivable sale program. Foreign exchange gains and losses are 
related primarily to the revaluation of net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. 

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020
The  decrease  in  interest  expense  in  fiscal  2021  compared  to  fiscal  2020  was  mainly  due  to  lower  average  borrowing 
levels, as the Company fully repaid its $400 million unsecured two-year term loan on April 20, 2021. The decrease in bank 
and other financial charges was mainly due to fees incurred in fiscal 2020 in connection with the amendments made in 
June 2020 to the revolving long-term bank credit facility, both term loan facilities, and the privately issued notes. 

5.5.9 Income taxes
The Company’s average effective tax rate is calculated as follows:

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Earnings (loss) before income taxes
Income tax expense (recovery)
Average effective income tax rate

n.m. = not meaningful

2022

566.4
24.9
 4.4 %

2021

624.6
17.4
 2.8 %

2020

(229.4)
(4.1)
 1.8 %

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

(58.2)
7.5
1.6 pp

854.0
21.5
1.0 pp

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021
The income tax expense of $25 million and $17 million in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021, respectively, both include income tax 
recoveries relating to the re-recognition of previously de-recognized deferred income tax assets that we expect to recover 
as a result of the Company's reassessment of the recoverability of its U.S. deferred income tax assets. In addition, fiscal 
2022  includes  income  tax  expenses  relating  to  gains  on  asset  disposals  included  within  restructuring  and  acquisition-
related costs. Excluding the impact of the aforementioned income tax recoveries and excluding the impact of impairment 
charges and reversals, net insurance gains and restructuring and acquisition related costs, the average adjusted effective 
income tax rate for both years was comparable. 

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020
The  income  tax  expense  of  $17  million  in  fiscal  2021  and  the  net  income  tax  recovery  of  $4  million  in  fiscal  2020  both 
include income tax recoveries relating to the re-recognition of previously de-recognized deferred income tax assets that 
we  expect  to  recover  as  a  result  of  the  Company's  reassessment  of  the  recoverability  of  its  U.S.  deferred  income  tax 
assets. In addition, fiscal 2020 includes income tax recoveries relating to restructuring and acquisition-related costs and 
strategic  product  line  initiatives,  as  well  as  a  tax  recovery  relating  to  the  impairment  charge  of  goodwill  and  intangible 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 17

 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

assets. Excluding these aforementioned income tax recoveries, the income tax expense was $26 million for fiscal 2021 
compared to an income tax expense of $6 million for fiscal 2020 due to earnings incurred in fiscal 2021 compared to a net 
loss incurred in fiscal 2020. Notwithstanding the consolidated net loss in fiscal 2020, the Company incurred income tax 
expenses in certain subsidiaries that had taxable income in fiscal 2020.

The  income  tax  recoveries  in  fiscal  2022  related  to  the  re-recognition  of  previously  de-recognized  deferred  income  tax 
assets  were  $10  million  (2021  -  $9  million  and  2020  -  $5  million).  Other  income  tax  expense  and  recoveries  relating  to 
restructuring and acquisition-related costs, impairment charges and reversals, net insurance gains and strategic product 
line initiatives were $7 million (2021 - nil, and 2020 - $5 million recovery).

5.5.10 Net earnings, adjusted net earnings, earnings per share measures, and other performance measures

(in $ millions, except per share amounts) 

2022

2021

2020

Variation 
2022-2021

Variation 
2021-2020

Net earnings (loss)
Adjustments for:

541.5   

607.2   

(225.3)   

(65.7)   

832.5 

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

0.5   

8.2   

48.2   

(7.7)   

(40.0) 

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 

(Impairment reversal of intangible assets, net 
of write-downs)

Impact of strategic product line initiatives

Discontinuance of PPE SKUs

Net insurance gains

Income tax expense (recovery) relating to the 

above-noted adjustments

Income tax (recovery) expense related to the 

revaluation of deferred income tax assets and 
liabilities(1)

Adjusted net earnings (loss)(2)
Diluted EPS 
Adjusted diluted EPS(2)

62.3   

(1.0)   

—   

(31.5)   

8.8   

—   

(25.9)   

(46.0)   

94.0   

60.0   

6.2   

(9.6)   

93.8   

(9.8)   

—   

20.1   

(125.5) 

(51.2) 

(6.2) 

(36.4) 

7.2   

—   

(4.6)   

7.2   

4.6 

(9.9)   

574.7   
2.93   
3.11   

(8.6)   

538.1   
3.07   
2.72   

(5.2)   

(36.3)   
(1.14)   
(0.18)   

(1.3)   

36.6   
(0.14)   
0.39   

(3.4) 

574.4 
4.21 
2.90 

(1) Includes an income tax recovery of $9.9 million (2021 - $8.6 million, 2020 - $5.2 million) pursuant to the recognition of previously de-
recognized (in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 pursuant to the organizational realignment plan) deferred income tax assets as a result of a re-
assessment of the probability of realization of such deferred income tax assets.
(2) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021
The decline in net earnings and diluted EPS for 2022 was mainly due to the lower operating income and higher financial 
and  income  tax  expenses.  Record  adjusted  net  earnings  for  2022  of  $575  million  reflected  the  increase  in  adjusted 
operating  income  slightly  offset  by  higher  financial  expenses.  The  record  adjusted  diluted  EPS  of  $3.11  in  2022  also 
reflected the benefit of a lower year-over-year share count resulting from Company repurchases of shares under its share 
repurchase program.

Fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020
Net earnings and adjusted net earnings generated in fiscal 2021 compared to the net loss and adjusted net loss incurred 
in  fiscal  2020  was  mainly  due  to  the  economic  recovery  we  saw  in  fiscal  2021  which  drove  strong  year-over-year 
operating  and  adjusted  operating  income  performance,  as  well  as  lower  net  financial  expenses,  partly  offset  by  higher 
income taxes.  

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 18

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

5.6 Summary of quarterly results

The  table  below  sets  forth  certain  summarized  unaudited  quarterly  financial  data  for  the  eight  most  recently  completed 
quarters. This quarterly information has been prepared in accordance with IFRS. The operating results for any quarter are 
not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period.

For the three months ended 
(in $ millions, except share and per share amounts or 
otherwise indicated) 

Net sales

Net earnings

Net earnings per share
            Basic(1)
            Diluted(1)

Weighted average number of shares 

outstanding (in ‘000s)

            Basic

            Diluted

Q4 2022 Q3 2022 Q2 2022 Q1 2022 Q4 2021 Q3 2021 Q2 2021 Q1 2021

720.0   

850.0   

895.6   

774.9   

784.3   

801.6   

747.2   

589.6 

83.9   

153.0   

158.2   

146.4   

173.9   

188.3   

146.4   

98.5 

0.47   

0.47   

0.84   

0.84   

0.85   

0.85   

0.77   

0.77   

0.90   

0.89   

0.95   

0.95   

0.74   

0.74   

0.50 

0.50 

  179,680    181,980    185,506    189,344    193,841    197,334    198,464    198,418 

  179,897    182,239    185,869    190,214    194,760    198,059    199,050    198,582 

(1) Quarterly EPS may not add to year-to-date EPS due to rounding.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

5.6.1 Seasonality and other factors affecting the variability of results and financial condition
Throughout  2021,  as  the  economy  progressively  reopened  and  Covid  restrictions  eased,  improved  market  conditions 
contributed to improving the Company's financial performance. In 2022, while the recovery continued to drive momentum 
in  the  imprintables  channel,  with  a  return  to  travel  and  large  events,  retail-end  markets  were  impacted  by  a  softening 
demand  environment  and  the  lingering  effects  of  the  pandemic  on  retailers.  International  markets  continued  to  be 
impacted by a challenging economic backdrop in Europe and Asia, as well as the strict Covid policy in China. Further, as 
we  moved  through  2022,  our  customers  managed  their  inventory  levels  more  tightly  as  a  result  of  the  growing  macro 
economic uncertainty.

Our results of operations for interim and annual periods are impacted by the variability of certain factors, including, but not 
limited  to,  changes  in  end-use  demand  and  customer  demand,  our  customers’  decisions  to  increase  or  decrease  their 
inventory levels, changes in our sales mix, and fluctuations in selling prices and raw material costs. While our products are 
sold on a year-round basis, our business experiences seasonal changes in demand which result in quarterly fluctuations 
in  operating  results.  Although  certain  products  have  seasonal  peak  periods  of  demand,  competitive  dynamics  may 
influence  the  timing  of  customer  purchases  causing  seasonal  trends  to  vary  somewhat  from  year  to  year.  Historically, 
demand  for  T-shirts  is  lowest  in  the  fourth  quarter  and  highest  in  the  second  quarter  of  the  year,  when  distributors 
purchase inventory for the peak summer selling season. Historically, demand for fleece is typically highest in advance of 
the  fall  and  winter  seasons,  in  the  second  and  third  quarters  of  the  year.  Sales  of  hosiery  and  underwear  are  typically 
higher  during  the  second  half  of  the  year,  during  the  back-to-school  period  and  the  Christmas  holiday  selling  season. 
These seasonal sales trends of our business also result in fluctuations in our inventory levels throughout the year. 

Our  results  are  also  impacted  by  fluctuations  in  the  price  of  raw  materials  and  other  input  costs.  Cotton  and  polyester 
fibers are the primary raw materials used in the manufacture of our products, and we also use chemicals, dyestuffs, and 
trims,  which  we  purchase  from  a  variety  of  suppliers.  Cotton  prices  are  affected  by  consumer  demand,  global  supply, 
which  may  be  impacted  by  weather  conditions  in  any  given  year,  speculation  on  the  commodities  market,  the  relative 
valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries, and other factors that are generally 
unpredictable.  While  we  enter  into  purchase  contracts  and  derivative  financial  instruments  in  advance  of  delivery  to 
establish  firm  prices  for  the  cotton  component  of  our  yarn  requirements,  our  realized  cotton  costs  can  fluctuate 
significantly between interim and annual reporting periods. Energy costs in our results of operations are also affected by 
fluctuations in crude oil, natural gas, and petroleum prices, which can also influence transportation costs and the cost of 
related  items  used  in  our  business,  such  as  polyester  fibers,  chemicals,  dyestuffs,  and  trims.  Changes  in  raw  material 
costs are initially reflected in the cost of inventory and only impact net earnings when the respective inventories are sold. 

Business  acquisitions  may  affect  the  comparability  of  results.  In  addition,  management  decisions  to  consolidate  or 
reorganize operations, including the closure of facilities, may result in significant restructuring costs in an interim or annual 
period. Subsection 5.5.5 entitled "Restructuring and acquisition-related costs" in this MD&A contains a discussion of costs 
related to the Company’s restructuring actions and business acquisitions. Share repurchases have reduced our number 
of  shares  outstanding  and  increased  our  Net  earnings  per  share  (EPS)  in  each  of  the  last  five  quarters. The  Company 
may repurchase more shares in the future as deemed appropriate, but this remains uncertain. The effect of asset write-

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 19

 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

downs, including allowances for expected credit losses, provisions for discontinued inventories, and impairments of long-
lived assets can also affect the variability of our results. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we reported an impairment 
charge  of  $62  million  relating  to  our  Hosiery  cash-generating  unit  (CGU),  compared  to  a  reversal  of  impairment  of 
$32 million (net of specific asset write-offs) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. Our results of operations over the past two 
years also include net insurance gains resulting from accrued insurance recoveries for the Company’s claims for losses 
relating to the two hurricanes in Central America in November 2020 (Q4 2020: $10 million; Q1 2021: $6 million; Q2 2021: 
$13 million; Q3 2021: $30 million; Q1 2022: $0.3 million, Q4 2022: $25.6 million).

Our  reported  amounts  for  net  sales,  cost  of  sales,  SG&A  expenses,  and  financial  expenses/income  are  impacted  by 
fluctuations in certain foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar as described in the “Financial risk management” section of 
this  MD&A.  The  Company  periodically  uses  derivative  financial  instruments  to  manage  risks  related  to  fluctuations  in 
foreign exchange rates.

5.7 Fourth quarter operating results

For the three months ended

(in $ millions, except per share amounts or otherwise indicated) 

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

Variation $

Variation %

Net sales

Gross profit
Adjusted gross profit(1)
SG&A expenses

Impairment (Reversal of impairment) of trade accounts 

receivable

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

Impairment of intangible assets (Impairment reversal of 

intangible assets, net of write-downs)

Operating income
Adjusted operating income(1)
Adjusted EBITDA(1)
Financial expenses

Income tax recovery

Net earnings
Adjusted net earnings(1)
Basic EPS

Diluted EPS
Adjusted diluted EPS(1)
Gross margin
Adjusted gross margin(1)
SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales

Operating margin
Adjusted operating margin(1)
Diluted weighted average number of common shares 

outstanding (in ‘000s)

720.0 

234.8 

209.2 

75.8 

(2.2) 

6.3 

62.3 

92.6 

135.6 

163.6 

13.3 

(4.6) 

83.9 

117.2 

0.47 

0.47 

0.65 

 32.6 %

 29.1 %

 10.5 %

 12.9 %

 18.8 %

784.3 

229.3 

239.8 

80.5 

(1.0) 

4.2 

(31.5) 

177.1 

160.3 

189.9 

4.7 

(1.5) 

173.9 

148.5 

0.90 

0.89 

0.76 

 29.2 %

 30.6 %

 10.3 %

 22.6 %

 20.4 %

179,897

194,760

(64.3) 

5.5 

(30.6) 

(4.7) 

(1.2) 

2.1 

93.8 

(84.5) 

(24.7) 

(26.3) 

8.6 

(3.1) 

(90.0) 

(31.3) 

(0.43) 

(0.42) 

(0.11) 

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

 (8.2) %

 2.4 %

 (12.8) %

 (5.8) %

n.m.

 50.0 %

n.m.

 (47.7) %

 (15.4) %

 (13.8) %

n.m.

n.m.

 (51.8) %

 (21.1) %

 (47.8) %

 (47.2) %

 (14.5) %

3.4 pp

(1.5) pp

0.2 pp

(9.7) pp

(1.6) pp

n/a

n.m. = not meaningful
n/a = not applicable
(1) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 20

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Net sales for the fourth quarter ending January 1, 2023, of $720 million were down 8% over the prior year, consisting of 
activewear sales of $595 million, down 5%, and sales of $125 million in the hosiery and underwear category, down 21% 
compared  to  the  prior  year  quarter.  The  decline  in  activewear  sales  was  due  to  lower  volumes  resulting  from  a 
combination  of  lower  POS  in  retail  end-markets,  and  to  a  lesser  extent,  at  North American  distributors,  as  well  as  the 
absence of inventory replenishment versus a year ago, partly offset by higher net selling prices and the favorable impact 
of  mix.  International  sales  in  the  quarter  were  up 16%  over  the  prior  year,  benefiting  from  inventory  replenishment  and 
higher net selling prices. In the hosiery and underwear category, the sales decline compared to last year was due to weak 
POS in retail and the impact of retailers continuing to reduce inventory levels with these impacts slightly offset by higher 
net selling prices. 

Gross margin of 32.6% in the quarter was up 340 basis points over 2021 due mainly to the impact of $26 million in net 
insurance gains relating to additional hurricane insurance recoveries recognized in the quarter, and the non-recurrence of 
an $8 million strategic product line initiative charge in the fourth quarter of last year, partially offset by other factors noted 
below. On an adjusted gross margin basis which excludes the impact of net insurance gains and the strategic product line 
initiative charge noted above, adjusted gross margin of 29.1% was down 150 basis points compared to 30.6% last year. 
The decline in adjusted gross margins over 2021 was primarily due to higher raw material costs and manufacturing costs 
which  more  than  offset  higher  net  selling  prices  and  favourable  product-mix.  These  other  factors  also  impacted  gross 
margins.

SG&A  expenses  for  the  fourth  quarter  of  $76  million  were  down  $5  million,  or  6%,  compared  to  last  year  due  to  lower 
volumes, lower variable compensation expenses and cost containment efforts, which more than offset the impact of cost 
inflation. SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales increased slightly by 20 basis points to 10.5% compared to 10.3% 
last year, as the benefit of lower expenses was more than offset by sales deleverage. 

In the fourth quarter, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge for our Hosiery CGU of $62 million relating to intangible 
assets acquired in previous sock and hosiery business acquisitions with this charge driven by current market conditions.  
This charge compares to a net reversal of impairment of $32 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2021 for the same 
CGU. After reflecting the net impact of the above items for both years, operating income in the fourth quarter of $93 million 
was down from $177 million last year. 

On  an  adjusted  basis,  before  reflecting  the  net  impact  of  intangible  asset  impairment  charges  and  reversals,  accrued 
insurance  recoveries,  and  restructuring  and  acquisition  related  costs  in  both  years,  we  generated  adjusted  operating 
income of $136 million, or 18.8% of sales, compared to $160 million, or 20.4% of sales, in the fourth quarter of 2021. The 
year-over-year decrease in adjusted operating income reflected lower sales and lower adjusted gross margin, partly offset 
by lower SG&A expenses, while the 160 basis point decrease in adjusted operating margin was due to the decrease in 
adjusted gross margin. Net financial expenses of $13 million were up $8 million over the prior year, mainly due to higher 
interest rates on higher average borrowing levels. As a result, we reported net earnings of $84 million, or $0.47 per diluted 
share, for the fourth quarter of 2022 and adjusted net earnings of $117 million, or $0.65 per diluted share. This compared 
to net earnings of $174 million, or $0.89 per diluted share, and adjusted net earnings of $149 million, or $0.76 per diluted 
share, respectively, in the fourth quarter last year.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 21

6.0 FINANCIAL CONDITION

6.1 Current assets and current liabilities

(in $ millions)

Cash and cash equivalents 
Trade accounts receivable 
Inventories
Prepaid expenses, deposits and other current assets
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Current portion of lease obligations
Income taxes payable
Current portion of long-term debt
Total working capital(1)
Current ratio(2)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

January 1,
2023

January 2,
2022

Variation

150.4   
248.8   
1,225.9   
101.8   
(471.2)  
(13.8)  
(6.6)  
(150.0)  
1,085.3   
2.7   

179.2   
330.0   
774.4   
163.7   
(440.4)  
(15.3)  
(7.9)  
—   
983.7   
3.1 

(28.8) 
(81.2) 
451.5 
(61.9) 
(30.8) 
1.5 
1.3 
(150.0) 
101.6 
n.m

n.m. = not meaningful
(1) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.
(2) Current ratio is defined as current assets divided by current liabilities.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary. 

•

•

•

•

•

The decrease in cash and cash equivalents mainly reflects share repurchases under the Company's NCIB program 
and  the  payment  of  dividends,  partially  offset  by  increases  in  amounts  drawn  under  our  revolving  long-term  bank 
credit facilities and the free cash flow generated during fiscal 2022.

The decrease in trade accounts receivable (which are net of accrued sales discounts) was mainly due to the impact 
of higher trade accounts receivables sold under the receivables purchase agreement and the impact of lower sales 
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021.

The increase in inventories during fiscal 2022 was mainly due to planned increases in overall unit volumes, in order to 
improve  inventory  levels  from  the  below  optimal  levels  at  the  end  of  Q4  2021  that  had  resulted  from  production 
constraints due to the impact of the 2020 hurricanes in Central America and yarn labour shortages. The increase in 
inventories  also  reflected  higher  unit  costs  due  to  higher  fiber  costs  and  inflationary  pressure  on  other  materials, 
freight  and  conversion  costs.  The  Company  expects  that  the  impact  of  high  unit  costs  in  inventories  at  the  end  of 
fiscal 2022 will negatively impact gross margins in the first half of fiscal 2023 relative to margins reported for the first 
half of fiscal 2022. 

Prepaid expenses, deposits and other current assets are lower mainly due to a decrease in the fair value of derivative 
financial instrument assets which reflected the maturity of commodity forward swap contracts that were designated as 
hedges for the Company's cotton purchases for fiscal 2022.

The increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities is mainly the result of higher production, higher raw material 
and freight costs, partially offset by the timing of remittances to banks of sold receivable collections, as well as lower 
accruals for variable compensation. 

• Working  capital  was  $1,085  million  as  at  January  1,  2023,  compared  to  $984  million  as  at  January  2,  2022.  The 
current ratio at the end of fiscal 2022 of 2.7 is lower than the current ratio of 3.1 at the end of fiscal 2021, mainly due 
to $150 million of our long-term debt becoming current during the third quarter of fiscal 2022.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 22

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, intangible assets, and goodwill

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

(in $ millions)

Balance, January 2, 2022
Additions
Business dispositions

Purchase price allocation adjustment
Depreciation and amortization
Net carrying amounts of disposals

Property, plant
and equipment

Right-of-use
assets

Intangible
assets

Goodwill

985.1   
242.5   
—   

—   
(102.3)  
(10.1)  

92.4   
11.7   
(8.4)  

—   
(14.8)  
—   

306.6   
5.2   
—   

—   
(19.2)  
(0.3)  

(62.3)  
230.0   

283.8 
— 
(13.9) 

1.8 
— 
— 

— 
271.7 

Write-downs and impairments
Balance, January 1, 2023
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

—   
1,115.2   

(3.0)  
77.9   

•

•

•

•

Additions  to  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  mainly  due  to  expenditures  related  to  the  expansion  of  textile  and 
sewing  manufacturing  operations,  including  our  Bangladesh  expansion  project,  and  modernization  of  the  yarn-
spinning facilities acquired as part of the Frontier Yarns acquisition. Disposals are mainly due to the sale of one of our 
U.S. yarn spinning facilities.

The decrease in right-of-use assets mainly reflects the disposal of our lease interest following the sale of one of our 
smaller U.S. yarn spinning facilities that was acquired as part of the Frontier Yarns acquisition, as well as the impact 
of depreciation, partially offset by manufacturing and distribution facility lease modifications entered into during 2022. 

Intangible  assets  are  comprised  of  customer  contracts  and  relationships,  trademarks,  license  agreements,  non-
compete  agreements,  and  computer  software.  The  $77  million  decrease  in  intangible  assets  mainly  reflects  the 
impairment charge of $62 million taken relating to the Hosiery CGU and amortization of $19 million.

The $12 million decrease in goodwill reflects $14 million of goodwill disposed of in connection with the sale of one of 
the Frontier Yarns spinning facilities, partially offset by a purchase price allocation adjustment due to a change in our 
preliminary valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with the Frontier acquisition.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 23

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3 Other non-current assets and non-current liabilities

(in $ millions)

Deferred income tax assets

Other non-current assets 
Long-term debt
Lease obligations
Other non-current liabilities(1)

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

January 1,
2023

January 2,
2022

16.0   

2.5   
(780.0)  
(80.2)  
(56.2)  

17.7   

3.8   
(600.0)  
(93.8)  
(59.9)  

Variation

(1.7) 

(1.3) 
(180.0) 
13.6 
3.7 

(1) Other non-current liabilities include provisions and employee benefit obligations. 
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

•

•

See section 8.0 entitled “Liquidity and capital resources” in this MD&A for the discussion on long-term debt.

The decrease in lease obligations mainly reflects the payments made during the fiscal year, as well as the disposal of 
our lease obligation which was sold as part of the sale of one of the Frontier Yarns spinning facilities, partially offset 
by the impact of manufacturing and distribution facility lease renewals entered into during the year.

7.0 CASH FLOWS

7.1 Cash flows from (used in) operating activities

(in $ millions)

Net earnings

Adjustments for:

2022

2021

Variation

541.5   

607.2   

(65.7) 

Depreciation and amortization

124.9   

135.4   

(10.5) 

Non-cash restructuring (gains) costs related to property, plant 
and equipment, right-of-use assets, and computer software

Impairment of intangible assets (Impairment reversal of 

intangible assets, net of write-downs)

Timing differences between settlement of financial derivatives 

and transfer of deferred gains and losses in accumulated OCI 
to inventory and net earnings

Insurance recovery gain, net of loss on disposal of property, 

plant and equipment

Share-based compensation

Other

Changes in non-cash working capital balances
Cash flows from operating activities

(3.3)  

3.1   

62.3   

(31.5)  

(6.4) 

93.8 

(11.3)  

8.0   

(19.3) 

(34.2)  

32.4   

8.1   
(307.1)  
413.3   

(43.7)  

37.7   

(2.0)  
(96.7)  
617.5   

9.5 

(5.3) 

10.1 
(210.4) 
(204.2) 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

•

•

Cash  flows  from  operating  activities  were  $413  million  in  fiscal  2022,  compared  to  $618  million  in  fiscal  2021. 
Operating  cash  flows  were  mainly  impacted  in  fiscal  2022  by  a  higher  increase  in  non-cash  working  capital,  as 
explained below.

The  net  increase  in  non-cash  working  capital  was  $307  million  in  fiscal  2022,  compared  to  a  net  increase  of 
$97 million during fiscal 2021. The higher increase in non-cash working capital compared to last year was mainly due 
to a higher increase in inventories, partially offset by a decrease in trade accounts receivable in fiscal 2022 compared 
to an increase in fiscal 2021. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 24

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2 Cash flows from (used in) investing activities

(in $ millions)

Purchase of property, plant and equipment  
Purchase of intangible assets
Business dispositions (acquisitions)

Proceeds from insurance related to property, plant and equipment 

(PP&E) and other disposals of PP&E

Cash flows used in investing activities

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

2022

(239.1)  
(5.4)  
33.5   

28.6   
(182.4)  

2021

Variation

(127.5)  
(2.8)  
(164.0)  

106.4   
(187.9)  

(111.6) 
(2.6) 
197.5 

(77.8) 
5.5 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

•

•

The increase in cash flows used in investing activities in fiscal 2022 was due to planned higher capital spending, as 
well  as  a  decrease  in  insurance  proceeds  relating  to  property,  plant  and  equipment  damaged  from  the  2020 
hurricanes in Central America, partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of one of our U.S. yarn spinning facilities.

Capital expenditures1 during fiscal 2022 are described in section 6.2 of this MD&A entitled "6.2 Property, plant and 
equipment, right-of-use assets, intangible assets, and goodwill", and our projected capital expenditures for the next 
fiscal year are discussed in section 8.0 entitled “Liquidity and capital resources” in this MD&A.

7.3 Free cash flow

(in $ millions)

2022

2021

Variation

Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows used in investing activities
Adjustment for:
Business (dispositions) acquisitions
Free cash flow(1)
(1) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in 
this MD&A.

617.5   
(187.8)  

413.5   
(182.4)  

(33.5)  
197.6   

164.0   
593.7   

(197.5) 
(396.1) 

(204.0) 
5.4 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

•

For fiscal 2022, the year-over-year decrease in free cash flow of $396 million was mainly due to lower operating cash 
flows of 204 million, as well as the higher capital expenditures compared to the same period last year, and a decrease 
in insurance proceeds relating to damaged equipment. 

       1  Capital expenditures include purchases of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets.   

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 25

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

7.4 Cash flows from (used in) financing activities

(in $ millions)

2022

2021

Variation

Increase in amounts drawn under revolving long-term bank credit 

facility long-term bank credit facilities

Payment of term loan

Payment of lease obligations

Dividends paid

Proceeds from the issuance of shares

Repurchase and cancellation of shares

Share repurchases for settlement of non-Treasury RSUs

Withholding taxes paid pursuant to the settlement of non-Treasury 

RSUs

Cash flows used in financing activities

330.0   

—   

(16.6)  

(123.8)  

15.0   

(449.2)  

(8.3)  

(5.5)  

(258.4)  

—   

(400.0)  

(21.5)  

(90.5)  

9.4   

(245.1)  

(4.3)  

(2.8)  

(754.8)  

330.0 

400.0 

4.9 

(33.3) 

5.6 

(204.1) 

(4.0) 

(2.7) 

496.4 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

•

•

Cash  flows  used  in  financing  activities  for  fiscal 2022  mainly  reflected  the  repurchase  and  cancellation  of  common 
shares  under  NCIB  programs  as  discussed  in  section  8.5  of  this  MD&A,  the  payment  of  dividends,  and  payments 
made during the period on lease obligations, partially offset by cash inflows of $330 million from funds drawn on our 
long-term  bank  credit  facilities.  See  section  8.0  of  this  MD&A  entitled  “Liquidity  and  capital  resources”  for  the 
discussion on long-term debt. 

The  Company  paid  $124  million  of  dividends  during  fiscal  2022  compared  to  $90  million  of  dividends  during  fiscal 
2021. The year-over-year increase is due to the 10% increase in the amount of the quarterly dividend approved by 
the Board of Directors on May 4, 2022, as well the impact of the reinstatement of the Company's quarterly dividend 
during the second quarter of fiscal 2021, partially offset by the impact of lower common shares outstanding as a result 
of the repurchase and cancellation of common shares executed since fiscal 2018 under NCIB programs.

8.0 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

8.1 Capital allocation framework

Historically,  our  primary  uses  of  funds  have  been  for  working  capital  requirements,  capital  expenditures,  business 
acquisitions,  and  the  payment  of  dividends  and  share  repurchases,  which  we  have  funded  with  cash  generated  from 
operations  and  with  funds  drawn  from  our  long-term  debt  facilities.  We  have  established  a  capital  allocation  framework 
intended to enhance sales and earnings growth as well as shareholder returns. After funding working capital needs, our 
first priority of cash use is to fund our organic growth with the required capital investments. Beyond these requirements, 
our next priorities for capital allocation are to support our dividends and for opportunistic complementary acquisitions with 
a preference towards opportunities that could enhance our supply chain model. In addition, we have used excess cash to 
repurchase shares under normal course issuer bid programs.  

The Company has set a fiscal year-end net debt leverage target ratio1 of one to two times pro-forma adjusted EBITDA for 
the trailing twelve months, which it believes will provide an efficient capital structure and a framework within which it can 
execute on its capital allocation priorities. We expect that cash flows from operating activities and the unutilized financing 
capacity under our long-term debt facilities will continue to provide us with sufficient liquidity to fund our organic growth 
strategy,  including  anticipated  working  capital  and  projected  capital  expenditures  averaging  6%  to  8%  of  annual  sales, 
repay or refinance the portion of our notes payable coming due in August 2023, and allow for the continued payment of 
dividends and continued share repurchases in line with our leverage framework and value considerations. Refer to note 
26  of  the  audited  annual  consolidated  financial  statements  for  the  year  ended  January  1,  2023  for  an  update  on  the 
Company’s liquidity risk.  

1  This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 26

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

8.2 Long-term debt and net debt and net debt leverage ratio

The Company's long-term debt as at January 1, 2023 is described below.

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Non-current portion of long-term debt

Effective 
interest 
rate (1)

Principal amount

January 1,
2023

January 2,
2022

Maturity 
date

Revolving long-term bank credit facility, interest at variable U.S. interest 
rate(2)(3)

3.4%  

330.0   

— 

Term loan, interest at variable U.S. interest rate, payable monthly(2)(4)

3.0%  

300.0   

300.0 

Notes payable, interest at fixed rate of 2.70%, payable semi-annually(5)

Notes payable, interest at Adjusted LIBOR plus a spread of 1.53%, 

payable quarterly(5)(6)

n/a

n/a

—   

—   

100.0 

50.0 

Notes payable, interest at fixed rate of 2.91%, payable semi-annually(5)

2.9%  

100.0   

100.0 

Notes payable, interest at Adjusted LIBOR plus a spread of 1.57%, 

payable quarterly(5)(6)

2.9%  

50.0   

50.0 

780.0   

600.0 

Current portion of long-term debt

Notes payable, interest at fixed rate of 2.70%, payable semi-annually(5)

2.7%  

100.0   

Notes payable, interest at Adjusted LIBOR plus a spread of 1.53%, 
payable quarterly(5)(6)

2.7%

Long-term debt

50.0   

150.0   

930.0   

— 

— 

— 

600.0 

March 
2027

June 
2026

August 
2023

August 
2023

August 
2026

August 
2026

August 
2023

August 
2023

(1) Represents the annualized effective interest rate for the year ended January 1, 2023, including the cash impact of interest rate swaps, 
where applicable.

(2) SOFR advances at adjusted Term SOFR (includes a 0.00% to 0.25% reference rate adjustment) plus a spread ranging from 1% to 
3%. 

(3) The Company’s committed unsecured revolving long-term bank credit facility of $1 billion provides for an annual extension which is 
subject to the approval of the lenders. The spread added to the adjusted Term SOFR is a function of the total net debt to EBITDA ratio (as 
defined in the credit facility agreement and its amendments). In addition, an amount of $43.9 million (January 2, 2022 - $51.1 million) has 
been committed against this facility to cover various letters of credit. 

(4) The unsecured term loan is non-revolving and can be prepaid in whole or in part at any time with no penalties. The spread added to 
the adjusted Term SOFR is a function of the total net debt to EBITDA ratio (as defined in the term loan agreements and its amendments).

(5)  The  unsecured  notes  issued  for  a  total  aggregate  principal  amount  of  $300  million  to  accredited  investors  in  the  U.S.  private 
placement market can be prepaid in whole or in part at any time, subject to the payment of a prepayment penalty as provided for in the 
Note Purchase Agreement.

(6) Adjusted LIBOR rate is determined on the basis of floating rate notes that bear interest at a floating rate plus a spread of 1.53%. 

On June 30, 2022, the Company amended its notes purchase agreement to include LIBOR fallback provisions to replace 
LIBOR with adjusted term SOFR, adjusted daily simple SOFR or any relevant alternate rate selected by the note holders 
and the Company upon a benchmark transition event or early opt-in election.

On  March  25,  2022,  the  Company  amended  and  extended  its  unsecured  revolving  long-term  bank  credit  facility  of 
$1  billion  to  March  2027.  As  part  of  the  amendment,  LIBOR  references  were  replaced  with  Term  Secured  Overnight 
Financing Rate (‘‘Term SOFR’’) and the revolving facility includes a sustainability-linked loan ("SLL") structure, whereby its 
applicable  margins  are  adjusted  upon  achievement  of  certain  sustainability  targets,  commencing  in  2023.  Revolving 
facility advances made prior to these amendments continue to apply LIBOR rates until the end of their term.

On  March  25,  2022,  the  Company  amended  its  $300  million  term  loan  to  replace  LIBOR  references  by  Term  SOFR 
references.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 27

 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

On  April  20,  2021,  the  Company  fully  repaid  its  $400  million  unsecured  two-year  term  loan  which  was  due  on 
April 6, 2022. In June 2021, the Company amended its unsecured term loan of $300 million to extend the maturity dates 
from April 2025 to June 2026.

On June 26, 2020, given the rapidly changing environment and level of uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic, 
the  Company  amended  its  various  loans  and  note  agreements  to  modify  its  covenants  and  provide  increased  financial 
flexibility.  The  amendments  effected  changes  to  certain  provisions  and  financial  covenants  during  the  period  beginning 
March 30, 2020 and ending April 4, 2021 (the “covenant relief period”), and included restrictions with respect to dividends, 
share repurchases, and capital expenditures. Effective April 5, 2021, a covenant relief period expired, and the Company 
subsequently reinstated its quarterly dividend, as explained in section 8.4 of this MD&A entitled "Declaration of dividend", 
and  also  reinstated  its  share  repurchase  program  during  the  third  quarter  of  2021,  as  explained  in  section  8.5  of  this 
MD&A entitled “Normal course issuer bid (NCIB)”.

The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants as at January 1, 2023. The Company expects to maintain 
compliance with its covenants over the next twelve months, based on its current expectations and forecasts.

(in $ millions)

Long-term debt (including current portion)

Bank indebtedness

Lease obligations (including current portion)
Total debt(1)
Cash and cash equivalents
Net debt(1)

January 1,
2023

January 2,
2022

930.0   

—   

94.0   

1,024.0   
(150.4)  

873.6   

600.0 

— 

109.1 

709.1 
(179.2) 

529.9 

(1) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

The primary measure used by the Company to  monitor  its  financial leverage is its net debt leverage ratio as defined  in 
section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this MD&A. Gildan’s net debt leverage ratio 
as at January 1, 2023, was 1.1 times (January 2, 2022 - 0.7 times). The Company’s net debt leverage ratio is calculated 
as follows:

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Adjusted EBITDA for the trailing twelve months(1)
Adjustment for:
  Business acquisitions 
Pro-forma adjusted EBITDA for the trailing twelve months(1)
Net debt(1)
Net debt leverage ratio(1)(2)

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

764.2   

726.8 

—   
764.2   

873.6   
1.1   

22.8 
749.6 

529.9 
0.7 

(1) This is a non-GAAP financial measure or ratio. See section 16.0 "Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures" in this 
MD&A.

(2) The Company's net debt to EBITDA ratio for purposes of its loan and note agreements was 1.3 at January 1, 2023

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

The  total  net  debt  to  EBITDA  ratios  (as  defined  in  the  credit  facility  agreement  and  its  amendments)  vary  from  the 
definition  of  the  Company’s  non-GAAP  ratio  and  non-GAAP  financial  measures  “net  debt  leverage  ratio”  and  “adjusted 
EBITDA”, respectively, as presented in this MD&A in certain respects. The definitions in the loan and note agreements are 
based on accounting for all leases in accordance with previous accounting principles whereby the Company’s leases for 
premises  were  accounted  for  as  operating  leases,  while  the  Company’s  reported  net  debt  leverage  ratio  reflects  lease 
accounting in accordance with the Company’s current accounting policies. In addition, adjustments permitted to EBITDA in 
the loan and note agreements vary from the adjustments used by the Company in calculating its adjusted EBITDA non-
GAAP  financial  measure,  and  EBITDA  as  calculated  in  the  loan  and  note  agreements  was  also  impacted  by  certain 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 28

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

provisions applicable during the covenant relief period. As a result of these differences, our total net debt to EBITDA ratio 
for purposes of our loan and note agreements was 1.3 at the end of fiscal 2022 (2021 - 0.8).

The Company, upon approval from its Board of Directors, may issue or repay long-term debt, issue or repurchase shares, 
or undertake other activities as deemed appropriate under the specific circumstances.

8.3 Outstanding share data 

Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) under 
the  symbol  GIL. As  at  February  21,  2023,  there  were  179,721,939  common  shares  issued  and  outstanding  along  with 
2,734,343 stock options and 72,601 dilutive restricted share units (Treasury RSUs) outstanding. Each stock option entitles 
the  holder  to  purchase  one  common  share  at  the  end  of  the  vesting  period  at  a  pre-determined  option  price.  Each 
Treasury RSU entitles the holder to receive one common share from treasury at the end of the vesting period, without any 
monetary consideration being paid to the Company. Treasury RSUs are used exclusively for one-time awards to attract 
candidates or for retention purposes and their vesting conditions, including any performance objectives, are determined by 
the Board of Directors at the time of grant.

8.4 Declaration of dividend 

The Company paid dividends of $123.8 million during the year ended January 1, 2023. On February 21, 2023, the Board 
of  Directors  approved  a  10%  increase  in  the  amount  of  the  current  quarterly  dividend  and  declared  a  cash  dividend  of 
$0.186  per  share  for  an  expected  aggregate  payment  of  $33  million  which  will  be  paid  on April  10,  2023,  on  all  of  the 
issued  and  outstanding  common  shares  of  the  Company,  rateably  and  proportionately,  to  the  holders  of  record  on 
March  14,  2023. This  dividend  is  an  “eligible  dividend”  for  the  purposes  of  the  Income Tax Act  (Canada)  and  any  other 
applicable provincial legislation pertaining to eligible dividends. 

As part of the Company's capital allocation framework as described in section 8.1 of this MD&A, the Board of Directors 
considers several factors when deciding to declare quarterly cash dividends, including the Company’s present and future 
earnings,  cash  flows  for  working  capital  requirements,  capital  expenditures,  debt  covenant  and  repayment  obligations, 
capital requirements, the macro-economic environment, and present and/or future regulatory and legal restrictions. 

The  Company's  dividend  payout  policy  and  the  declaration  of  dividends  are  subject  to  the  discretion  of  the  Board  of 
Directors and, consequently, there can be no assurances that Gildan's dividend policy will be maintained or that dividends 
will be declared in respect of any quarter or other future periods. The declaration of dividends by the Board of Directors is 
ultimately dependent on the Company’s operations and financial results which are, in turn, subject to various assumptions 
and risks, including those set out in this MD&A. 

8.5 Normal course issuer bid (NCIB)

On August 4, 2021, the Company received Board and Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) approval for the reinstatement of its  
normal course issuer bid to purchase for cancellation a maximum of 9,926,177 common shares, representing 5% of the 
Company's issued and outstanding common shares, as at July 31, 2021 (the reference date for the NCIB). The Company 
was  authorized  to  make  purchases  under  the  normal  course  issuer  bid  during  the  period  from  August  9,  2021  to 
August 8, 2022 in accordance with the requirements of the TSX. 

On  February  22,  2022,  the  Company  received  approval  from  the  Toronto  Stock  Exchange  (TSX)  to  amend  its  current 
NCIB, which commenced on August 9, 2021, in order to increase the maximum number of common shares that may be 
repurchased from 9,926,177, or 5% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common shares as at July 31, 2021 (the 
reference date for the NCIB), to 19,477,744 common shares, representing 10% of the public float as at July 31, 2021. No 
other terms of the NCIB were amended. 

The  automatic  share  purchase  plan  (ASPP)  entered  into  with  a  designated  broker  on  August  9,  2021,  also  remains 
unchanged.  The ASPP  allows  for  the  purchase  of  common  shares  under  the  NCIB  at  times  when  the  Company  would 
ordinarily not be permitted to purchase its common shares due to regulatory restrictions or self-imposed trading blackout 
periods. Outside of the pre-determined blackout periods, common shares may be purchased under the NCIB based  on 
the discretion of the Company’s management, in compliance with TSX rules and applicable securities laws.

In August  2022,  the  Company  received  approval  from  the  TSX  to  renew  its  normal  course  issuer  bid  (NCIB)  program 
commencing on August 9, 2022, to purchase for cancellation a maximum of 9,132,337 common shares, representing 5% 
of the Company's issued and outstanding common shares, as at July 31, 2022 (the reference date for the NCIB).          

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 29

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Under the NCIB, the Company is authorized to make purchases under the normal course issuer bid during the period from 
August 9, 2022 to August 8, 2023 in accordance with the requirements of the TSX. Purchases can be made by means of 
open  market  transactions  on  both  the TSX  and  the  New York  Stock  Exchange  (NYSE),  or  alternative  Canadian  trading 
systems,  if  eligible,  or  by  such  other  means  as  may  be  permitted  by  securities  regulatory  authorities,  including  pre-
arranged crosses, exempt offers, private agreements under an issuer bid exemption order issued by securities regulatory 
authorities and block purchases of common shares. During the third quarter, the Company completed share repurchases 
under its NCIB ending August 8, 2022 and following the renewal of the Company's NCIB, effective August 9, 2022, the 
Company continued to repurchase shares. 

During the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023, the Company repurchased for cancellation a total of 13,096,866 common 
shares under its NCIB programs for a total cost of $444 million, $13 million was charged to share capital and the balance 
was charged to retained earnings.

9.0 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

9.1 Claims and litigation

The Company is a party to claims and litigation arising in the normal course of operations. The Company does not expect 
the resolution of these matters to have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of the 
Company. 

10.0 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

The  Company  is  exposed  to  risks  arising  from  financial  instruments,  including  credit  risk,  liquidity  risk,  foreign  currency 
risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, as well as risks arising from changes in the price of our common shares under 
our share-based compensation plans. Please refer to note 26 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for 
the year ended January 1, 2023 for additional details. 

10.1 Off-balance sheet arrangements and maturity analysis of contractual obligations

In  the  normal  course  of  business,  we  enter  into  contractual  obligations  that  will  require  us  to  disburse  cash  over  future 
periods. Our material short-term cash requirements include payments under our lease obligations, purchase obligations; 
related  to  capital  expenditures,  cotton  commitments  as  well  as  raw  material  and  finished  goods  inventory,  and  other 
working capital needs. Working capital, defined as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on 
effective  management  of  receivables  from  our  customers,  inventory  levels  and  payables  to  our  suppliers,  as  well  as 
commodity pricing. 

Our long-term material cash requirements from currently known obligations include repayment of outstanding borrowings, 
interest payment obligations under our credit agreement, settlements on our outstanding derivative hedge contracts, long 
term lease obligations, as well as minimum royalty payments.

All commitments have been reflected in our consolidated statements of financial position except for purchase obligations, 
as well as minimum royalty payments, which are included in the table of contractual obligations below. We have no off-
balance  sheet  arrangements,  other  than  as  discussed  in  this  section.  The  following  table  sets  forth  the  maturity  of  our 
contractual obligations by period as at January 1, 2023.

(in $ millions)

amount

cash flows

fiscal year

fiscal years fiscal years

fiscal years

Carrying Contractual   Less than 1

1 to 3

4 to 5 More than 5

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  

471.2 

Long-term debt
Interest obligations(1)

Purchase and other obligations

Lease obligations
Total contractual obligations

930.0 

— 

— 

471.2   

930.0   

168.4   

598.5   

471.2   

150.0   

47.1   

335.8   

94.0 
  1,495.2 

114.9   
2,283.0   

19.3   
1,023.4   

—   

—   

84.1   

132.5   

29.2   
245.8   

—   

780.0   

37.2   

87.7   

22.8   
927.7   

— 

— 

— 

42.5 

43.6 
86.1 

(1)  Interest  obligations  include  expected  interest  payments  on  long-term  debt  as  at  January  1,  2023  (assuming  balances  remain 
outstanding through to maturity). For variable rate debt, the Company has applied the rate applicable at January 1, 2023 to the currently 
established maturity dates. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 30

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

As  disclosed  in  note  24  to  our  2022  audited  annual  consolidated  financial  statements,  we  have  granted  financial 
guarantees,  irrevocable  standby  letters  of  credit,  and  surety  bonds  to  third  parties  to  indemnify  them  in  the  event  the 
Company and some of its subsidiaries do not perform their contractual obligations. As at January 1, 2023, the maximum 
potential liability under these guarantees was $153 million, of which $17 million was for surety bonds and $136 million was 
for financial guarantees and standby letters of credit. 

11.0 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS

Our  significant  accounting  policies  are  described  in  note  3  to  our  fiscal  2022  audited  annual  consolidated  financial 
statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, and 
expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 

Estimates  and  underlying  assumptions  are  reviewed  on  an  ongoing  basis.  Revisions  to  accounting  estimates  are 
recognized in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. 

11.1 Critical judgments in applying accounting policies

The following are critical judgments that management has made in the process of applying accounting policies and that 
have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements:

Determination of cash-generating units (CGUs)
The identification of CGUs and grouping of assets into the respective CGUs is based on currently available information 
about actual utilization experience and expected future business plans. Management has taken into consideration various 
factors in identifying its CGUs. These factors include how the Company manages and monitors its operations, the nature 
of each CGU’s operations, and the major customer markets each CGU serves. As such, the Company has identified two 
CGUs for purposes of testing the recoverability and impairment of non-financial assets: Textile & Sewing, and Hosiery.

Income taxes
The Company’s income tax provisions and income tax assets and liabilities are based on interpretations of applicable tax 
laws, including income tax treaties between various countries in which the Company operates, as well as underlying rules 
and  regulations  with  respect  to  transfer  pricing.  These  interpretations  involve  judgments  and  estimates  and  may  be 
challenged through government taxation audits, the Company being regularly subject to such audits. New information may 
become available that causes the Company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing income tax assets 
and liabilities; such changes will impact net earnings in the period that such a determination is made. 

11.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty

Key  sources  of  estimation  uncertainty  that  have  a  significant  risk  of  resulting  in  a  material  adjustment  to  the  carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:

Inventory valuation
The cost of inventories may no longer be recoverable if inventories are discontinued, damaged, in excess quantities, or if 
their selling prices or estimated forecast of product demand decline. Discontinued, damaged, and excess inventories are 
carried at the net realizable value, as those inventories are sold below cost in liquidation channels. In determining the net 
realizable value of finished goods, the Company considers recent recovery rates and current market conditions in these 
channels. The Company regularly reviews inventory quantities on hand, current production plans, and forecasted future 
sales,  and  inventories  are  written  down  to  net  realizable  value  when  it  is  determined  that  they  are  no  longer  fully 
recoverable.  There  is  estimation  uncertainty  in  relation  to  the  identification  of  excess  inventories  and  in  the  expected 
selling  prices  used  in  establishing  the  net  realizable  value. As  at  January  1,  2023,  a  10%  decrease  or  increase  in  the 
expected selling prices used to establish the net realizable value of discontinued, damaged, and excess inventories would 
result in either a decrease or an increase in inventories of approximately $1.6 million, with a corresponding adjustment to 
cost of sales. If actual market conditions are less favorable than previously projected or if liquidation of the inventory which 
is no longer deemed fully recoverable is more difficult than anticipated, additional write-downs may be required.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 31

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Recoverability and impairment of non-financial assets
The calculation of fair value less costs of disposal or value in use for purposes of measuring the recoverable amount of 
non-financial  assets  involves  the  use  of  significant  assumptions  and  estimates  with  respect  to  a  variety  of  factors, 
including  expected  sales,  gross  margins,  SG&A  expenses,  cash  flows,  capital  expenditures,  and  the  selection  of  an 
appropriate  earnings  multiple  or  discount  rate,  all  of  which  are  subject  to  inherent  uncertainties  and  subjectivity.  The 
assumptions  are  based  on  annual  business  plans  and  other  forecasted  results,  earnings  multiples  obtained  by  using 
market  comparables  as  references,  and  discount  rates  which  are  used  to  reflect  market-based  estimates  of  the  risks 
associated with the projected cash flows, based on the best information available as of the date of the impairment test. 
Changes  in  circumstances,  such  as  technological  advances,  adverse  changes  in  third-party  licensing  arrangements, 
changes to the Company’s business strategy, and changes in economic and market conditions can result in actual useful 
lives and future cash flows that differ significantly from estimates and could result in increased charges for amortization or 
impairment.  Revisions  to  the  estimated  useful  lives  of  finite-life  non-financial  assets  or  future  cash  flows  constitute  a 
change  in  accounting  estimate  and  are  applied  prospectively.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  estimates  and 
assumptions used in the impairment tests will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. If the future adversely differs 
from management’s best estimate of key economic assumptions and the associated cash flows materially decrease, the 
Company may be required to record material impairment charges or accelerated depreciation and amortization charges 
related to its non-financial assets. Please refer to note 11 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for the 
year ended January 1, 2023 for additional details on the recoverability of the Company’s cash-generating units.

12.0 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET APPLIED

12.1 Accounting policies

The  Company’s  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  for  fiscal  2022  were  prepared  in  accordance  with  IFRS  as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), using the same accounting policies as those applied in its 
fiscal 2021 audited annual consolidated financial statements.

12.2 New accounting standards and interpretations not yet applied

The following new accounting standards are not effective for the year ended January 1, 2023 and have not been applied 
in preparing the audited annual consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements
On  January  23,  2020,  the  IASB  issued  narrow-scope  amendments  to  IAS  1,  Presentation  of  Financial  Statements,  to 
clarify  how  to  classify  debt  and  other  liabilities  as  current  or  non-current.  The  amendments  (which  affect  only  the 
presentation of liabilities in the statement of financial position) clarify that the classification of liabilities as current or non-
current should be based on rights that are in existence at the end of the reporting period to defer settlement by at least 
twelve months and make explicit that only rights in place at the end of the reporting period should affect the classification 
of a liability; clarify that classification is unaffected by expectations about whether an entity will exercise its right to defer 
settlement  of  a  liability;  and  make  clear  that  settlement  refers  to  the  transfer  to  the  counterparty  of  cash,  equity 
instruments,  other  assets,  or  services.  On  October  31,  2022,  the  IASB  issued  Non-current  Liabilities  with  Covenants 
(Amendments to IAS 1). These further amendments clarify how to address the effects on classification and disclosure of 
covenants which an entity is required to comply with on or before the reporting date and covenants which an entity must 
comply with only after the reporting date. 

These  amendments  will  be  effective  for  annual  periods  beginning  on  or  after  January  1,  2024,  with  earlier  application 
permitted and are to be applied retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments on 
its consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2, Disclosure of Accounting Policy Information
In  February  2021,  the  IASB  issued  amendments  to  IAS  1  Presentation  of  Financial  Statements  and  IFRS  Practice 
Statement 2 Making Materiality Judgements. The amendments help entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are 
more useful to primary users of financial statements by: 

– Replacing the requirement to disclose “significant” accounting policies under IAS 1 with a requirement to disclose 
“material” accounting policies. Under this, an  accounting  policy would be material if, when considered  together 
with  other  information  included  in  an  entity’s  financial  statements,  it  can  reasonably  be  expected  to  influence 
decisions  that  primary  users  of  general  purpose  financial  statements  make  on  the  basis  of  those  financial 
statements. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 32

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

–

Providing  guidance  in  IFRS  Practice  Statement  2  to  explain  and  demonstrate  the  application  of  the  four-step 
materiality process to accounting policy disclosures.

The amendments shall be applied prospectively. The amendments to IAS 1 are effective for annual periods beginning on 
or  after  January  1,  2023.  Earlier  application  is  permitted.  Once  an  entity  applies  the  amendments  to  IAS  1,  it  is  also 
permitted to apply the amendments to IFRS Practice Statement 2. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the 
amendment on its consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to IAS 8, Definition of Accounting Estimates
In  February  2021,  the  IASB  amended  IAS  8  Accounting  Policies,  Changes  in  Accounting  Estimates  and  Errors  to 
introduce a new definition of “accounting estimates” to replace the definition of “change in accounting estimates” and also 
include  clarifications  intended  to  help  entities  distinguish  changes  in  accounting  policies  from  changes  in  accounting 
estimates.  This  distinction  is  important  because  changes  in  accounting  policies  must  be  applied  retrospectively  while 
changes  in  accounting  estimates  are  accounted  for  prospectively.  The  amendments  are  effective  for  annual  periods 
beginning on or after January 1, 2023. Earlier application is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of 
the amendment on its consolidated financial statements.

Amendments to IAS 12, Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction

On May 7, 2021, the IASB amended IAS 12 Income Taxes, to narrow the scope of the initial recognition exemption so that 
it  does  not  apply  to  transactions  that  give  rise  to  equal  and  offsetting  temporary  differences.  The  amendments  are 
effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2023. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the 
amendment on its consolidated financial statements.

13.0 DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As  stated  in  the  Canadian  Securities Administrators’  National  Instrument  52-109,  Certification  of  Disclosure  in  Issuers’ 
Annual  and  Interim  Filings  and  Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e)  under  the  U.S.  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as 
amended,  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  means  controls  and  other  procedures  of  an  issuer  that  are  designed  to 
provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the issuer in its annual filings, interim filings, or 
other reports filed or submitted by it under securities legislation is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within 
the  time  periods  specified  in  the  securities  legislation  and  include  controls  and  procedures  designed  to  ensure  that 
information  required  to  be  disclosed  by  an  issuer  in  its  annual  filings,  interim  filings,  or  other  reports  filed  or  submitted 
under securities legislation is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its certifying officers, 
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of January 1, 2023 was carried out under 
the  supervision  of,  and  with  the  participation  of,  our  management,  including  our  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  our  Chief 
Financial Officer. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our 
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of January 1, 2023. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 33

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

14.0 INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

14.1 Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting

Our  management  is  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  adequate  internal  control  over  financial  reporting,  as 
such  term  is  defined  in  Rules  13(a)-15(f)  and  15(d)-15(f)  under  the  U.S.  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934  and  under 
National Instrument 52-109. 

Our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  means  a  process  designed  by,  or  under  the  supervision  of,  an  issuer’s 
certifying  officers,  and  effected  by  the  issuer’s  board  of  directors,  management,  and  other  personnel,  to  provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes  in  accordance  with  the  issuer’s  GAAP  and  includes  those  policies  and  procedures  that:  (1)  pertain  to  the 
maintenance  of  records  that,  in  reasonable  detail,  accurately  and  fairly  reflect  the  transactions  and  dispositions  of  our 
assets;  (2)  are  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  that  transactions  are  recorded  as  necessary  to  permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and that our receipts 
and  expenditures  are  being  made  only  in  accordance  with  authorization  of  our  management  and  directors;  and  (3)  are 
designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  prevention  or  timely  detection  of  unauthorized  acquisition,  use,  or 
disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the annual financial statements or interim financial reports.

The design of any system of controls and procedures is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of 
certain events. There can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential 
future  conditions,  regardless  of  how  remote.  As  a  result,  due  to  its  inherent  limitations,  internal  control  over  financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods 
are  subject  to  the  risk  that  controls  may  become  inadequate  because  of  changes  in  conditions,  or  that  the  degree  of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Under  the  supervision  and  with  the  participation  of  our  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  our  Chief  Financial  Officer, 
management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as at January 1, 
2023,  based  on  the  framework  set  forth  in  Internal  Control-Integrated  Framework  (2013)  issued  by  the  Committee  of 
Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission  (COSO).  Based  on  that  evaluation  under  this  framework,  our 
Chief  Executive  Officer  and  our  Chief  Financial  Officer  concluded  that  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  was 
effective as of January 1, 2023. 

14.2 Attestation report of independent registered public accounting firm

KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, which audited and reported on our consolidated financial 
statements,  has  issued  an  unqualified  report  on  the  effectiveness  of  our  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  of 
January 1, 2023.

14.3 Changes in internal control over financial reporting

There have been no changes that occurred during the quarter beginning on October 3, 2022 and ended January 1, 2023 
in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our 
internal control over financial reporting.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 34

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

15.0 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 

In  addition  to  the  risks  previously  described  under  the  sections  “Financial  risk  management”,  “Critical  accounting 
estimates  and  judgments”,  and  those  described  elsewhere  in  this  MD&A,  this  section  describes  the  principal  risks  that 
could  have  a  material  and  adverse  effect  on  our  financial  condition,  results  of  operations,  business,  cash  flows,  or  the 
trading price of our common shares, as well as cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations expressed in 
or implied by our forward-looking statements. The risks listed below are not the only risks that could affect the Company. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially 
and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or business. 

Our ability to implement our growth strategies and plans 
The  growth  of  our  business  depends  on  the  successful  execution  of  key  strategic  initiatives  as  part  of  the  Gildan 
Sustainable Growth strategy, which is described in section 4.0 entitled "Strategy" of this MD&A. We are implementing our 
plan  or  plan  to  execute  on  various  initiatives  aimed  at  significantly  expanding  our  global  production  capacity  and 
maintaining or enhancing our cost structure, driving innovation across the organization, in our manufacturing and product-
development  processes,  distribution  and  final  products,  as  well  as  initiatives  defined  under  our  Next  Generation  ESG 
strategy as described in subsection 3.2.3 entitled "Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Program" of this MD&A. 
Our ability to implement our growth strategy and plans is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond 
our control, and include but are not limited to our ability to leverage the Company's strengths, general economic conditions 
and other risk factors as described in this MD&A. Further, achieving these objectives will require significant investments 
which  may  result  in  both  short-term  and  long-term  costs.  The  Company  relies  on  cash  generated  from  its  operating 
activities and its credit facilities as its primary source of liquidity. To support the Company’s business and execute on its 
growth  strategy,  the  Company  will  need  to  continue  to  generate  significant  amounts  of  cash  from  operations,  including 
funds  to  increase  the  Company’s  manufacturing  capacity.  If  the  Company’s  business  does  not  generate  cash  flow  from 
operating  activities  sufficient  to  fund  these  activities,  and  if  sufficient  funds  are  not  otherwise  available  from  its  credit 
facilities,  the  Company  may  need  to  seek  additional  capital  to  fund  its  business  or  execute  its  growth  strategy  in  which 
case there is no assurance the Company will be successful in obtaining such additional capital on favorable terms or at 
all. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the execution of these strategic initiatives, including the timely 
expansion of our manufacturing capacity to pursue growth or that the successful execution of these strategic initiatives will 
deliver the results we expect or grow our business. If we fail to effectively implement our strategy, our financial condition, 
results of operations, business or cash flows could be adversely affected.

Our ability to compete effectively 
The markets for our products are highly competitive and evolving rapidly. Competition is generally based upon service and 
product  availability,  price,  quality,  comfort  and  fit,  style,  and  brand.  Our  competitive  strengths  include  our  expertise  in 
building  and  operating  large-scale,  vertically  integrated  manufacturing  hubs  which  allows  us  to  operate  efficiently  and 
reduce  costs,  offer  competitive  pricing,  and  provide  a  reliable  supply  chain. As  discussed  in  section  4.0  of  this  MD&A 
entitled  "Strategy",  we  intend  to  increase  our  global  production  capacity,  and  any  failure  or  delay  in  efficiently 
implementing or managing such increase in capacity, or doing so in a cost-effective manner, could negatively impact our 
cost  manufacturing  and  distribution  structure,  which  would  negatively  impact  our  ability  to  compete.  There  can  be  no 
assurance that we will be able to maintain our low cost manufacturing and distribution structure and remain competitive. 
As  discussed  in  section  3.3  of  this  MD&A,  we  compete  with  domestic  and  international  manufacturers,  brands  of  well-
established  U.S.  apparel  and  sportswear  companies,  as  well  as  our  own  customers,  including  retailers  and  wholesale 
distributors  that  are  selling  basic  apparel  products  under  their  own  private  label  brands  that  compete  directly  with  our 
brands.  In  addition,  customer  preferences  continue  to  shift  to  online  shopping  through  the  use  of  computers,  tablets, 
mobile  phones  and  other  devices  and  the  Internet  continues  to  facilitate  competitive  entry  and  comparison  shopping. 
Failure to compete effectively and respond to evolving trends in the market, including intensifying competition from private 
label brands and e-commerce, and failure to adapt our operations to service the changing needs of our customers could 
have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Any changes in our ability to compete effectively in the 
future may result in the loss of customers to competitors, reduction in customer orders or shelf space, lower prices or the 
need for additional customer price incentives, and other forms of marketing support to our customers, all of which could 
have  a  negative  effect  on  our  sales  volumes  or  profitability  if  we  are  unable  to  offset  such  negative  impacts  with  new 
business or cost reductions.  

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 35

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Our ability to integrate acquisitions 
The Company’s strategic opportunities may include potential complementary acquisitions that could support, strengthen, 
or expand our business. The integration of newly acquired businesses may prove to be more challenging, take more time 
than originally anticipated, or result in significant additional costs and/or operational issues, all of which could negatively 
affect  our  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.  In  addition,  we  may  not  be  able  to  fully  realize  anticipated 
synergies and other benefits expected from acquisitions. 

We may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic and financial conditions 
General economic and financial conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may negatively affect our 
business.  If  there  is  a  decline  in  economic  growth  and  in  consumer  and  commercial  activity,  and/or  adverse  financial 
conditions  exist  in  the  credit  markets,  as  in  the  case  of  the  global  credit  crisis  in  2008  and  2009  or  the  COVID-19 
coronavirus  (as  described  below),  this  may  lead  to  lower  demand  for  our  products  resulting  in  sales  volume  reductions 
and lower selling prices and may cause us to operate at levels below our optimal production capacity, which would result 
in higher unit production costs, all of which could negatively affect our profitability and reduce cash flows from operations. 
Weak economic and financial conditions could also negatively affect the financial condition of our customers, which could 
result in lower sales volumes and increased credit risk.

The novel COVID-19 coronavirus which was recognized as a global pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 
2020 has had an adverse impact on the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and consumer spending and has 
caused significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The pandemic significantly reduced economic activity and 
negatively  affected  markets  around  the  world  as  governmental  authorities  responded  with  the  implementation  of  
numerous restrictive measures in order to limit the spread of the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, 
shelter-in-place  orders  and  mandated  business  shutdowns.  In  2020,  as  a  result  of  the  effects  of  the  pandemic,  the 
Company experienced a major reduction in sales and incurred significant costs resulting from the idling of manufacturing 
facilities and other actions it took in an effort to navigate through the pandemic, as explained in section 5.0 of this MD&A 
(in particular, the subsection entitled “Impact of COVID-19 pandemic and other developments”). Although we have since 
then  observed  a  recovery  in  global  economies  and  consequently  in  the  demand  for  our  products  with  the  easing  of 
restrictions, rapid vaccine deployment, and resumption of travel, social gatherings, sporting, and other events at varying 
levels, the pandemic still impacts our business, including as a result of certain countries maintaining strict COVID-related 
policies through 2022. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and our ability to execute our 
business  strategies  will  depend  on  future  developments,  including  the  duration,  severity  and  any  resurgences  of  the 
pandemic, the implementation of containment measures, as well as vaccination rates in the markets in which we or our 
suppliers operate, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Accordingly, the evolving pandemic and its impacts 
may continue to have an adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any resurgence of 
the COVID-19 pandemic could significantly impact our supply chain. While our manufacturing facilities have reopened, we 
may face new or prolonged periods of facility shutdowns or work shortages with respect to some or all of our operations or 
the operations of the third party suppliers we rely on, due to, among other factors, a resurgence of infections of COVID-19 
and variants of the virus. If there is a prolonged economic downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the 
current inflationary environment, including as a result of the potential emergence of other variants of the virus in the future, 
or if any of the Company’s major customers do not have sufficient liquidity to allow them to continue to operate through a 
prolonged  economic  downturn,  the  Company  may  incur  operating  losses,  which  may  adversely  affect  the  Company’s 
financial  position,  including  cash  operating  losses,  and  potential  additional  asset  write-downs  and  impairments.  Further, 
weak demand for our products may lead to lower selling prices for our products and could negatively affect our margins 
and cash flow from operations. The COVID-19 pandemic and the current economic environment also exacerbate many of 
the other risks that are disclosed in this MD&A and listed above, as well as liquidity risk and credit risk that are described 
in section 10.0 of this MD&A entitled “Financial Risk Management”. Any estimate of the continued effects and severity of 
these developments is subject to significant uncertainty, and accordingly estimates of the extent to which the COVID-19 
pandemic  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  the  Company's  financial  condition,  results  of  operations,  cash  flows,  or 
business in future periods are also subject to significant uncertainty and cannot be predicted.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 36

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

We rely on a small number of significant customers
We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our total sales. In fiscal 2022, our top three customers 
accounted  for  18.6%,  18.1%,  and  10.7%  (2021  -  15.9%,  13.9%,  and  5.9%)  of  total  sales  respectively,  and  our  top  ten 
customers accounted for 67.9% (2021 - 58.8%) of total sales. We expect that these customers will continue to represent a 
significant portion of our sales in the future. 

Future sales volumes and profitability could be negatively affected should one or more of the following events occur:

•

•

•

•
•

a  significant  customer  substantially  reduces  its  purchases  or  ceases  to  buy  from  us,  or  we  elect  to  reduce  the 
volume  of  business  with  or  cease  to  sell  to  a  significant  customer,  and  we  cannot  replace  that  business  with 
sales to other customers on similar terms;
a large customer exercises its purchasing power to negotiate lower prices or higher price discounts or requires 
us to incur additional service and other costs;
a  customer  experiences  operational  disruptions  due  to  fires,  extreme  weather  conditions,  natural  disasters  or 
pandemics (such as COVID-19), information system failures or incidents, and other factors;
further industry consolidation leads to greater customer concentration and competition; and
a customer encounters financial difficulties and is unable to meet its financial obligations.

Our customers do not commit to purchase minimum quantities 
Our  contracts  with  our  customers  do  not  require  them  to  purchase  a  minimum  quantity  of  our  products  or  commit  to 
minimum shelf space allocation for our products. If any of our customers experience a significant business downturn or fail 
to remain committed to our products, they may reduce or discontinue purchases from us. Although we have maintained 
long-term  relationships  with  many  of  our  wholesale  distributor  and  retail  customers,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that 
historic levels of business from any of our customers will continue in the future. 

Our ability to anticipate, identify, or react to changes in consumer preferences and trends 
While  we  currently  focus  on  basic  products,  the  apparel  industry,  particularly  within  the  retail  channel,  is  subject  to 
evolving  consumer  preferences  and  trends.  Our  success  may  be  negatively  impacted  by  changes  in  consumer 
preferences which do not fit with Gildan’s core competency of marketing and large-scale manufacturing of basic apparel 
products. If we are unable to successfully anticipate, identify or react to changing styles or trends, or misjudge the market 
for  our  products,  our  sales  could  be  negatively  impacted  and  we  may  be  faced  with  unsold  inventory  which  could 
negatively impact our profitability. In addition, when introducing new products for our customers we may incur additional 
costs  and  transitional  manufacturing  inefficiencies  as  we  ramp-up  production  or  upgrade  manufacturing  capabilities  to 
support such customer programs, which could negatively impact our profitability. 

Our ability to manage production and inventory levels effectively in relation to changes in customer demand
Demand for our products may vary from year to year. We aim to appropriately balance our production and inventory with 
our  ability  to  meet  market  demand.  Based  on  discussions  with  our  customers  and  internally  generated  projections 
reflecting our analysis of factors impacting industry demand, we produce and carry finished goods inventory to meet the 
expected  demand  for  delivery  of  specific  product  categories.  If,  after  producing  and  carrying  inventory  in  anticipation  of 
deliveries, demand is significantly less than expected, we may have to carry inventory for extended periods of time or sell 
excess  inventory  at  reduced  prices.  In  either  case,  our  profits  would  be  reduced.  Excess  inventory  could  also  result  in 
lower  production  levels,  resulting  in  lower  plant  and  equipment  utilization  and  lower  absorption  of  fixed  operating  costs. 
Alternatively, we are also exposed to loss of sales opportunities and market share if we produce insufficient inventory to 
satisfy  our  customers’  demand  for  specific  product  categories  as  a  result  of  underestimating  market  demand  or  not 
meeting  production  targets,  in  which  case  our  customers  could  seek  to  fulfill  their  product  needs  from  competitors  and 
reduce the amount of business they do with us. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 37

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

We may be negatively impacted by fluctuations and volatility in the price of raw materials used to manufacture 
our products 
Cotton  and  polyester  fibers  are  the  primary  raw  materials  used  in  the  manufacture  of  our  products.  We  also  use 
chemicals,  dyestuffs,  and  trims  which  we  purchase  from  a  variety  of  suppliers.  The  price  of  cotton  fluctuates  and  is 
affected  by  consumer  demand,  global  supply,  which  may  be  impacted  by  weather  conditions  in  any  given  year, 
speculation  in  the  commodities  market,  the  relative  valuations  and  fluctuations  of  the  currencies  of  producer  versus 
consumer countries, and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control, including the overall state 
of the economy and expectations for economic growth (including as a result of the current inflationary environment and 
COVID-19 pandemic). In addition, fluctuations in crude oil or petroleum prices affect our energy consumption costs and 
can  also  influence  transportation  costs  and  the  cost  of  related  items  used  in  our  business,  such  as  polyester  fibers, 
chemicals,  dyestuffs,  and  trims.  Fluctuations  in  energy  prices  are  partly  influenced  by  government  policies  to  address 
climate change, which could increase our energy costs beyond our current expectations. The Company purchases cotton 
and polyester fibers through its yarn-spinning facilities, and also purchases processed cotton yarn and blended yarn from 
outside vendors, at prices that are correlated with the price of cotton and polyester fibers. The Company may enter into 
contracts  up  to  twenty-four  months  in  advance  of  future  delivery  dates  to  establish  fixed  prices  for  cotton,  cotton-based 
yarn, and  polyester fiber purchases and reduce  the effect of price fluctuations in the cost of cotton and polyester  fibers 
used in the manufacture of its products. For future delivery periods where such fixed price contracts have been entered 
into,  the  Company  will  be  protected  against  cotton  and  polyester  fiber  price  increases  but  would  not  be  able  to  benefit 
from cotton or polyester fiber price decreases. Conversely, in the event that we have not entered into sufficient fixed priced 
contracts for cotton or polyester fibers, or have  not made other arrangements to lock in the price of cotton or  polyester 
fibers in advance of delivery, we will not be protected against price increases, but will be in a position to benefit from any 
price  decreases. A  significant  increase  in  raw  material  costs,  particularly  cotton  and  polyester  fiber  costs,  could  have  a 
negative effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, if the increase or part of the increase is not 
mitigated  through  additional  manufacturing  and  distribution  cost  reductions  and/or  higher  selling  prices,  or  if  resulting 
selling  price  increases  negatively  impact  demand  for  the  Company’s  products.  In  addition,  when  the  Company  fixes  its 
cotton  and  polyester  fiber  costs  for  future  delivery  periods  and  the  cost  of  cotton  or  polyester  fibers  subsequently 
decreases  significantly  for  that  delivery  period,  the  Company  may  need  to  reduce  selling  prices,  which  could  have  a 
negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We rely on key suppliers 
Our ability to meet our customers’ needs depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of raw materials and 
finished  goods  from  third-party  suppliers.  More  specifically,  we  source  cotton,  cotton-based  yarns,  polyester  fibers, 
chemicals, dyestuffs, and trims primarily from a limited number of outside suppliers. In addition, a substantial portion of the 
products sold under the Gold Toe® portfolio of brands and licensed brands are purchased from a number of third-party 
suppliers. Our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be negatively affected if there is a significant 
change  in  our  relationship  with  any  of  our  principal  suppliers  of  raw  materials  or  finished  goods,  or  if  any  of  these  key 
suppliers have difficulty sourcing cotton fibers and other raw materials, experience production disruptions, fail to maintain 
production quality, fail to qualify under our social compliance program, experience transportation disruptions or encounter 
financial difficulties. These events can result in lost sales, cancellation charges, or excessive markdowns, all of which can 
have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

We  may  be  negatively  impacted  by  climate,  political,  social,  and  economic  risks,  natural  disasters,  pandemics, 
and endemics in the countries in which we operate or from which we source production
The majority of our products are manufactured in Central America, primarily in Honduras and Nicaragua, as well as the 
Caribbean  and  Bangladesh,  as  described  in  the  section  entitled  “Our  operations”  in  this  MD&A.  We  also  purchase 
significant volumes of socks from third-party suppliers in Asia. Some of the countries in which we operate or source from 
have experienced political, social, and economic instability in the past, and we cannot be certain of their future stability. In 
addition, most of our facilities and those of our key suppliers are located in geographic regions that are exposed to the risk 
of, and have experienced in the past, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, pandemics, and endemics. Any such events in the 
future could have a negative impact on our business.

The  following  conditions  or  events  could  disrupt  our  supply  chain,  interrupt  operations  at  our  facilities  or  those  of  our 
suppliers and customers, increase our cost of sales and other operating expenses, result in a loss of sales, asset losses, 
or require additional capital expenditures to be incurred:

•

fires,  extraordinary  weather  conditions,  or  natural  disasters,  such  as  hurricanes,  tornadoes,  floods,  extreme  heat, 
droughts, tsunamis, typhoons, and earthquakes;

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 38

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

•
•
•

pandemics, such as COVID-19 as described under the risk entitled "We may be negatively impacted by changes in 
general economic and financial conditions", or endemics
political instability, social and labour unrest, human rights violations, war, or terrorism;
disruptions in port activities, shipping and freight forwarding services; and
interruptions in the availability of basic services and infrastructure, including power and water shortages.

Our insurance programs do not cover every potential loss associated with our operations, including potential damage to 
assets, lost sales and profits, and liability that could result from the aforementioned conditions or events. In addition, our 
insurance may not fully cover the consequences resulting from a loss event, due to insurance limits, sub-limits, or policy 
exclusions.  Furthermore,  we  may  not  always  be  able  to  obtain  adequate  insurance  coverage  in  regions  in  which  we 
operate  that  have  a  higher  likelihood  of  experiencing  natural  disasters. Any  occurrence  not  fully  covered  by  insurance 
could have a negative effect on our business.

Compliance  with  laws  and  regulations  in  the  various  countries  in  which  we  operate  and  the  potential  negative 
effects of litigation and/or regulatory actions 
Our  business  is  subject  to  a  wide  variety  of  laws  and  regulations  across  all  of  the  countries  in  which  we  do  business, 
which involves the risk of legal and regulatory actions regarding such matters as international trade, competition, taxation, 
environmental,  health  and  safety,  product  liability,  employment  practices,  patent  and  trademark  infringement,  corporate 
and securities legislation, licensing and permits, data privacy, bankruptcies, and other claims. Some of these compliance 
risks are further described in this "Risks and uncertainties" section of the MD&A. In the event of non-compliance with such 
laws  and  regulations,  we  may  be  subject  to  regulatory  actions,  claims  and/or  litigation  which  could  result  in  fines, 
penalties, claim settlement costs or damages awarded to plaintiffs, legal defense costs, product recalls and related costs, 
remediation  costs,  incremental  operating  costs  and  capital  expenditures  to  improve  future/ongoing  compliance,  and 
damage  to  the  Company’s  reputation.  In  addition,  non-compliance  with  certain  laws  and  regulations  could  result  in 
regulatory  actions  that  could  temporarily  or  permanently  restrict  or  limit  our  ability  to  conduct  operations  as  planned, 
potentially  resulting  in  lost  sales,  closure  costs,  and  asset  write-offs.  Due  to  the  inherent  uncertainties  of  litigation  or 
regulatory  actions  in  both  domestic  and  foreign  jurisdictions,  we  cannot  accurately  predict  the  ultimate  outcome  of  any 
such proceedings. 

Laws and regulations are constantly changing and are often complex, and future compliance cannot be assured. Changes 
necessary  to  maintaining  compliance  with  these  laws  and  regulations  may  increase  future  compliance  costs  and  have 
other negative impacts on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

As part of the regulatory and legal environments in which we operate, Gildan is subject to anti-bribery laws that prohibit 
improper payments directly or indirectly to government officials, authorities, or persons defined in those anti-bribery laws 
in  order  to  obtain  business  or  other  improper  advantages  in  the  conduct  of  business.  Failure  by  our  employees, 
subcontractors,  suppliers,  agents,  and/or  partners  to  comply  with  anti-bribery  laws  could  impact  Gildan  in  various  ways 
that include, but are not limited to, criminal, civil and administrative legal sanctions, negative publicity, and could have a 
negative effect on our reputation as well as our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

We rely on certain international trade (including multilateral and bilateral) agreements and preference programs 
and are subject to evolving international trade regulations
As  a  multinational  corporation,  we  are  affected  by  import  tariffs,  including  the  potential  imposition  of  anti-dumping  or 
countervailing duties or other trade remedies on our raw materials and finished goods, international trade legislation, and  
bilateral and multilateral trade agreements and trade preference programs in the countries in which we operate, source, 
and  sell  products. To  remain  globally  competitive,  we  have  situated  our  manufacturing  facilities  in  strategic  locations  to 
benefit  from  various  free  trade  agreements  and  trade  preference  programs.  Furthermore,  management  continuously 
monitors  new  developments  and  evaluates  risks  relating  to  duties  including  anti-dumping  and  countervailing  duties, 
including anti-dumping and countervailing duties, tariffs, quantitative limitations and proposed trade restrictions that could 
impact our approach to global manufacturing and sourcing, and adjusts as needed. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 39

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The  Company  relies  on  a  number  of  preferential  trade  programs  which  provide  duty  free  access  to  the  U.S.  market  for 
goods meeting specified rules of origin, including the Dominican Republic - Central America - United States Free Trade 
Agreement  (CAFTA-DR),  the  Caribbean  Basin  Trade  Partnership  Act  (CBTPA),  and  the  Haiti  Economic  Lift  Program 
(HELP) previously referred to as the Haitian Hemispheric Opportunity through Partnership Encouragement Act (HOPE). 
Collectively, these agreements strengthen U.S. economic relations and expand trade with Central America, the Dominican 
Republic,  and  Haiti,  where  we  have  substantial  manufacturing  operations  and  activities.  The  Company  also  relies  on 
preferential trade agreements to access the European Union, Canada, and other markets. Changes to trade agreements 
or  trade  preference  programs  on  which  the  Company  currently  relies  on  or  the  entry  into  force  of  trade-restricting 
legislation  may  negatively  impact  our  global  competitive  position.  The  likelihood  that  the  agreements  and  preference 
programs around which we have built our manufacturing supply chain will be modified, repealed, or allowed to expire, and 
the extent of the impact of such changes on our business, cannot be determined with certainty. 

Recently there has been an increasing focus on U.S. domestic manufacturing that has drawn worldwide attention. While a 
significant  proportion  of  our  costs  to  manufacture  our  products  originate  in  the  United  States,  the  Company  also  has 
significant operations outside the United States. There can be no assurance that the recent and continuing focus in this 
area  may  not  attract  negative  publicity  on  the  Company  and  its  activities,  lead  to  adverse  changes  in  the  international 
trade agreements and preference programs on which the Company currently relies, the implementation of anti-dumping or 
countervailing duties or additional tariffs on imports of our raw materials or finished goods into the United States, or further 
U.S. tax reform that could increase our effective income tax rate. Furthermore, the imposition of non-tariff barriers by the 
countries into which we sell our products internationally may also impact our ability to service such markets. Any of these 
outcomes could negatively impact our ability to compete effectively and negatively affect our results of operations.

Many trade agreements provide for the application of special safeguards in the form of reinstatement of normal duties if 
increased imports constitute a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to a domestic industry. The likelihood 
that a safeguard will be adopted and the extent of its impact on our business cannot be determined with certainty.

Furthermore,  the  imposition  of  any  new  import  tariffs  in  any  of  the  countries  in  which  we  operate  may  also  negatively 
impact  our  global  competitive  position.  For  example,  United  States  domestic  laws  provide  for  the  application  of  anti-
dumping  or  countervailing  duties  on  imports  of  products  into  the  United  States  where  determinations  are  made  by  the 
relevant agencies that such imported products have been subsidized and/or are being sold at less than “fair value” in the 
case of anti-dumping determinations, or have been subsidized by a foreign government, in the case of countervailing duty 
determinations, and that such imports are causing a material injury to the domestic industry. The mechanism to implement 
anti-dumping and countervailing duties is available to every World Trade Organization member country. The impact of the 
imposition  of  such  duties  on  products  we  import  into  the  United  States  or  other  markets  cannot  be  determined  with 
certainty.

The  United  States  withdrew  from  the  Trans-Pacific  Partnership  Agreement  (TPP)  in  2017,  but  the  other  negotiating 
countries  went  on  to  conclude  the  Comprehensive  Progressive  Trans-Pacific  Partnership  (CPTPP)  in  2018.  Thus  far, 
Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Vietnam, and Malaysia have ratified and implemented 
CPTPP. Brunei and Chile will not benefit until they complete their ratification processes. CPTPP may negatively affect our 
competitive position in some of the countries in which we sell our products. 

The European Union has an Association Agreement with Central America, including Honduras and Nicaragua, where we 
have production operations. The European Union also has preferential trade arrangements with other countries. Further, 
the  European  Union  maintains  a  Generalized  System  of  Preferences  (GSP)  and  the  Everything  But  Arms  programs 
(EBA). These programs allow free or reduced duty entry into the European Union of qualifying articles, including apparel, 
from  developing  countries  and  least  developed  countries  where  we  have  manufacturing  operations,  including  Haiti  and 
Bangladesh. The European Union also affords preference to qualifying apparel from notable production venues including 
Vietnam,  Myanmar  and  Pakistan,  which  could  negatively  impact  our  competitive  position  in  the  European  Union.  Any 
changes to these agreements, could have a negative impact on our operations.

On  June  23,  2016,  the  United  Kingdom  (“UK”)  voted  to  leave  the  EU  (“Brexit”).  The  transition  period  for  the  UK’s 
withdrawal ended on December 31, 2020, and the UK formally left the EU on January 1, 2021. While the UK has entered 
into continuity agreements with Central American and CARIFOROM trade partners and has officially published regulations 
governing the new UK Generalized System of Preferences program, the competitiveness or our supply chain in the UK 
and the EU could be negatively impacted if the UK fails to effectively implement these agreements and programs or make 
them permanent.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 40

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

China  extends  duty-free  and  quota-free  trade  benefits  to  apparel  under  the Asia-Pacific  Trade Agreement  and  under  a 
special preferential tariff program for least developed countries, including to chief-weight cotton apparel from Bangladesh. 
Changes to the agreement or preference program could have a negative impact on our operations. In 2021, the United 
Nations General Assembly passed a resolution to “graduate” Bangladesh from the least developed country category to the 
developing  country  category.  The  resolution  established  a  five-year  grace  period.  This  change  in  Bangladesh’s  status 
could lead to a reduction or loss of trade preferences for its imports into Canada, the EU, the United Kingdom, Japan, 
Australia, and other countries. Bangladesh’s reduction or loss of trade preferences and benefits may negatively affect our 
competitive position in some of the countries in which we sell our products.

Many Chinese imports into the United States are subject to additional trade remedy duties under section 301 of the Trade 
Act of 1974. The items on Lists 3, 4A, and 4B under this action include textiles and apparel. Currently, goods on List 4A, 
which  include  many  apparel  articles,  are  subject  to  7.5  percent  additional  duty.  However,  China  has  reportedly  failed  to 
meet  its  commitments  under  the  January  15,  2020  “Phase  1”  agreement  with  the  United  States,  which  could  result  in 
tariffs for goods on List 4A increasing from 7.5% to 15%. Goods on List 4B, which include the majority of apparel articles, 
are currently not subject to additional duties, however the United States may decide to impose tariffs on these goods as 
well or take other measures against Chinese goods. These changes, or the imposition of any further duties on Chinese 
goods, could negatively impact our operations.

The  United  States  has  determined  that  the  mass  detention  and  treatment  of  Uyghurs  and  other  ethnic  minorities  in  the 
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR) of China includes and gives rise to forced labour. On December 23, 2021, 
United  States  President  Biden  signed  into  law  the  Uyghur  Forced  Labor  Prevention Act  (UFLPA),  which  establishes  a 
presumption that any goods produced or manufactured in whole or in part in XUAR were made with forced labour and are 
inadmissible into the United States unless importers present clear and convincing evidence that the goods were not made 
with forced labour. Under the law, which came into effect on June 21, 2022, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
chairs a government task force charge with developing and implementing an enforcement strategy. The strategy that has 
been announced identifies apparel and cotton products as high priority sectors of enforcement. This enforcement strategy 
and  the  broad  new  legal  authority  of  the  UFLPA  follows  previously  expanded  enforcement  against  the  importation  of 
goods  made  with  forced  labour.  The  UFLPA  supersedes  the  withhold  release  order  (WRO)  on  cotton  and  products 
containing cotton from the XUAR, under which U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) was instructed to detain cotton 
products including apparel, textiles and other products containing cotton grown or produced in the XUAR. CBP can detain, 
exclude, or seize shipments. Legislation focused on eradicating forced labour is pending in the United Kingdom, Canada, 
and  the  European  Union.  While  we  do  not  source  product  from  the  XUAR  region  and  have  taken  increased  actions  to 
ensure our entire supply chain is free of any forced labour, there is nonetheless a risk, given the presence of XUAR origin 
cotton in global supply chains, that our business could be affected by these restrictions.

The U.S. Generalized System of Preferences program expired on December 31, 2020. Although the expired program did 
not  include  duty-free  preference  for  textile  and  apparel  products,  any  renewal  of  the  program  incorporating  duty-free 
access  of  textiles  and  apparel  into  the  U.S.  for  beneficiary  countries  could  adversely  impact  our  competitiveness  in  the 
United States.

The  Regional  Comprehensive  Economic  Partnership  (RCEP)  is  a  free  trade  agreement  among  Australia,  Brunei, 
Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, 
Thailand, and Vietnam. On January 1, 2022, the agreement entered into force among Australia, Brunei, Cambodia, China, 
Japan,  Laos,  New  Zealand,  Singapore,  Thailand  and  Vietnam.  RCEP  then  entered  into  force  for  the  South  Korea  on 
February 1, 2022, for Malaysia on March 18, 2022, and for Indonesia on January 2, 2023. Once ratified by all signatories, 
RCEP  will  be  the  world’s  largest  free  trade  agreement  based  on  member’s  GDP.  As  the  RCEP  is  implemented  and 
utilized, it may negatively affect our competitive position in some of the countries in which we sell our products.

Japan's Generalized System of Preferences scheme currently allows duty-free entry of qualifying goods from Bangladesh. 
Any change to Japan’s GSP preference program could negatively impact our operations.

Overall, changes to trade agreements or trade preference programs that we leverage in our key country markets, or new 
agreements that liberalize access for our competitors, could negatively impact our competitiveness in those markets. The 
likelihood  of  such  changes,  or  of  modification,  suspension,  or  termination  of  the  agreements  and  preference  programs 
around  which  we  have  built  our  manufacturing  supply  chain,  and  the  extent  of  the  impact  on  our  business,  cannot  be 
determined with certainty.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 41

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In addition, the Company is subject to customs audits as well as valuation and origin verifications in the various countries 
in which it operates. Although we believe that our customs compliance programs are effective at ensuring the eligibility of 
all  goods  manufactured  for  the  preferential  treatment  claimed  upon  importation,  and  compliance  with  other  applicable 
customs requirements, we cannot predict the outcome of any governmental audit or inquiry.

The Company operates two U.S. foreign trade zones (FTZs) at two of its distribution warehouses in North Carolina and 
South  Carolina.  FTZs  enhance  efficiencies  in  the  customs  entry  process  and  allow  for  the  non-application  of  duty  on 
certain goods distributed internationally. FTZs are highly regulated operations and while the Company believes it has 
adequate systems and controls in place to manage the regulatory requirements associated with its FTZ, we cannot predict 
the outcome of any governmental audit or examination of its FTZ.

Over the past two decades, governmental bodies have responded to the increased threat of terrorist activity by requiring 
greater levels of inspection of imported goods and imposing security requirements on importers, carriers, and others in the 
global  supply  chain.  These  added  requirements  can  sometimes  cause  delays  and  increase  costs  in  bringing  imported 
goods to market. We believe we have effectively addressed these requirements to maximize velocity in our supply chain, 
but  changes  in  security  requirements  or  tightening  of  security  procedures,  for  example,  in  the  aftermath  of  a  terrorist 
incident, could cause delays in our goods reaching the markets in which we distribute our products.

Textile  and  apparel  articles  are  generally  not  subject  to  specific  export  restrictions  or  licensing  requirements  in  the 
countries where we manufacture and distribute goods. However, the creation of export licensing requirements, imposition 
of  restrictions  on  export  quantities,  or  specification  of  minimum  export  prices  could  negatively  impact  our  business.  In 
addition, unilateral and multilateral sanctions on dealings with certain countries and persons are unpredictable, and they 
continue to evolve in response to economic and political events, and could impact our trading relationships with vendors 
or customers.

Factors or circumstances that could increase our effective income tax rate
The  Company  benefits  from  a  low  overall  effective  corporate  tax  rate  as  the  majority  of  its  profits  are  earned  and  the 
majority  of  its  sales,  marketing,  and  manufacturing  operations  are  carried  out  in  low  tax  rate  jurisdictions  in  Central 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  Company’s  income  tax  filing  positions  and  income  tax  provisions  are  based  on 
interpretations of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including income tax treaties between various 
countries  in  which  the  Company  operates  as  well  as  underlying  rules  and  regulations  with  respect  to  transfer  pricing. 
These interpretations involve judgments and estimates and may be challenged through government taxation audits that 
the  Company  is  regularly  subject  to. Although  the  Company  believes  its  tax  filing  positions  are  sustainable,  we  cannot 
predict with certainty the outcome of any audit undertaken by taxation authorities in any jurisdictions in which we operate, 
and  the  final  result  may  vary  compared  to  the  estimates  and  assumptions  used  by  management  in  determining  the 
Company’s  consolidated  income  tax  provision  and  in  valuing  its  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities.  Depending  on  the 
ultimate  outcome  of  any  such  audit,  there  may  be  a  negative  impact  on  the  Company’s  financial  condition,  results  of 
operations, and cash flows. In addition, if the Company were to receive a tax reassessment by a taxation authority prior to 
the  ultimate  resolution  of  an  audit,  the  Company  could  be  required  to  submit  an  advance  deposit  on  the  amount 
reassessed.

The  Company's  overall  effective  income  tax  rate  may  also  be  adversely  affected  by  the  following:  changes  to  current 
domestic laws in the countries in which the Company operates; changes to or terminations of the income tax treaties the 
Company  currently  relies  on;  an  increase  in  income  and  withholding  tax  rates;  changes  to  free  trade  and  export 
processing zone rules in certain countries where the Company is currently not subject to income tax; changes in domestic 
laws and income tax treaties that may result from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) 
initiatives against base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), including the implementation of a global minimum tax which is 
discussed in greater detail below; changes to guidance regarding the interpretation and application of domestic laws, free 
trade and export processing zones, and income tax treaties; increases in the proportion of the Company's overall profits 
being earned in higher tax rate jurisdictions due to changes in the locations of the Company's operations; or other factors. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 42

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In October 2021, 136 jurisdictions, including Canada, agreed to the OECD’s BEPS initiative that aims to provide a two-
pillar solution to the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy. The agreement consists of two pillars, 
known  as  Pillar  One  and  Pillar  Two.  Generally,  Pillar  One  makes  changes  to  the  profit  allocation  and  nexus  rules 
applicable  to  business  profits  and  would  apply  to  multinational  enterprises  with  annual  global  revenues  greater  than  20 
billion euros and profitability above 10%, with the revenue threshold expected to be reduced to 10 billion euros over time. 
Based on the minimum revenue threshold, the Company is currently expected to be outside the scope of Pillar One. Pillar 
Two  provides  for  a  15%  global  minimum  tax  and  would  apply  to  multinational  enterprises  with  annual  global  revenues 
greater than 750 million euros. On December 20, 2021, the OECD published detailed model rules to assist jurisdictions in 
the  domestic  implementation  of  Pillar  Two  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  agreement  reached  in  October  2021  and 
released  commentary  to  those  rules  in  March  2022.  Many  jurisdictions  are  currently  proposing  to  implement  the  main 
component of Pillar Two by the start of 2024, and the European Union member states have recently unanimously adopted 
a Council Directive which requires the main component of Pillar Two to be transposed into member states’ domestic laws 
by the start of 2024. If Pillar Two is enacted by the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including but not 
limited  to  Canada,  United  States,  Barbados,  Honduras,  United  Kingdom  and  the  European  Union,  it  could  significantly 
increase  the  Company’s  low  effective  income  tax  rate  and  would  result  in  a  material  increase  to  our  tax  provisions  and 
annual income tax expense, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 

We  have  not  recognized  a  deferred  income  tax  liability  for  the  undistributed  profits  of  our  subsidiaries,  as  we  currently 
have no intention to repatriate these profits. If our expectations or intentions change in the future, we could be required to 
recognize a charge to earnings for the tax liability relating to the undistributed profits of our subsidiaries, which would also 
result in a corresponding cash outflow in the years in which the earnings would be repatriated. As at January 1, 2023, the 
estimated  income  tax  liability  that  would  result  in  the  event  of  a  full  repatriation  of  these  undistributed  profits  is 
approximately $67 million. 

Provisions for uncertain tax positions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts expected to be paid upon ultimate 
resolution. The Company’s overall effective income tax rate is impacted by its assessment of uncertain tax positions and 
whether  additional  taxes  and  interest  may  be  due.  The  Company’s  assessment  of  uncertain  tax  positions  may  be 
negatively affected as a result of new information, a  change in management’s assessment of the technical merits of  its 
positions, changes to tax laws, administrative guidance, and the conclusion of tax audits. 

Compliance with environmental and health and safety regulations 
We  are  subject  to  various  federal,  state,  and  local  environmental,  social  and  occupational  health  and  safety  laws  and 
regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, concerning, among other things, environmental licenses, wastewater 
discharges, air emissions, storm water flows, waste disposal, and fire permits. Our manufacturing plants generate some 
quantities of waste, which are recycled, repurposed, or disposed of by licensed waste management companies, in cases 
of  hazardous  waste.  Through  our  Global  Environment  &  Energy  Policy,  Restricted  Substances  Code  of  Practice  and 
Environmental  Management  System,  we  seek  not  only  to  comply  with  all  applicable  laws  and  regulations,  but  also  to 
reduce  our  environmental  footprint  through  an  efficient  use  of  our  resources,  landfill  reduction  and  the  prioritization  of 
reusing and recycling. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with the regulatory 
requirements of those jurisdictions in which our facilities are located, the extent of our liability, if any, for failures to comply 
with laws, regulations, and permits applicable to our operations cannot be reasonably determined. 

In line with our commitment to the environment, as well as to the health and safety of our employees, we incur capital and 
other expenditures each year that are aimed at achieving compliance with current environmental standards. There can be 
no assurance that future changes in federal, state, local, or other regulations, interpretations of existing regulations or the 
discovery  of  currently  unknown  problems  or  conditions  will  not  require  substantial  additional  environmental  remediation 
expenditures, fines/penalties, or result in a disruption to our supply chain, any of which could have an adverse effect on 
our business.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 43

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Global climate change could have an adverse impact on our business 
In  recent  years  we  have  seen  certain  effects  related  to  climate  change  largely  driven  by  extreme  weather  events  (e.g., 
hurricanes,  flooding,  fires,  severe  storms,  cyclones,  water  scarcity  etc.),  which  may  have  financial  implications  for  the 
business. Our operations in Central America, the Caribbean, North America, and Asia have been subjected to an increase 
in severe weather events. For example, in November 2020, our Central American operations were impacted by back-to-
back  hurricanes,  necessitating  a  temporary  shutdown  of  these  facilities.  While  the  Company  is  making  additional 
investments to improve the resiliency of its manufacturing facilities to extreme weather events, nonetheless, such future 
events could slow and/or halt production due to physical damage to our assets; result in increased employee absenteeism 
and reduced worker productivity in order to address incremental safety measures during extreme weather conditions; and/
or  result  in  supply  chain  disruptions  limiting  transportation  of  supplies  or  delivery  of  goods.  Additionally,  longer-term, 
chronic shifts in weather patterns may result in rising sea levels, or declining freshwater availability and quality, extreme 
heat as well as increased duration, intensity and frequency of weather events, all of which could restrict the capacity and 
cost effectiveness of our operations and impact the cost and availability of key raw materials such as cotton.  

In recent years, stakeholders have increased their expectations of companies regarding climate change which has led to 
increased  public  support  and  scrutiny  towards  climate  change  actions,  increased  receptivity,  and  requirements  towards 
low-carbon solutions. Response from governments around the world include favoring the adoption of emission reduction 
targets  and  legislation,  which  includes  supporting  climate  specific  legislation.  As  a  result,  Gildan  could  be  affected  by 
climate-related transitional risks, which include business related risks following societal and economic shifts towards a low 
carbon economy. Climate-related transition risks that we could be exposed to (but are not limited to) include the following: 
the impact of changes in government policies, laws and regulations; changes in market conditions; consumer preferences 
and  attitudes  affecting  their  spending  behavior;  increased  reputational  risk  for  failing  to  meet  evolving  stakeholder  and 
consumer expectations; and impacts related to adopting new technologies. In some of the regions in which we operate, 
government  policies  are  quickly  evolving  to  support  the  transitioning  to  a  low  carbon  economy  by  implementing  climate 
and  sustainability-related  legislation  and  regulations,  including  carbon  pricing  proposals,  mandates  for  emission 
reductions and supply chain mapping disclosures.

Gildan  has  established  an  ESG  strategy  which  in  part  is  aimed  at  meeting  stakeholder  expectations  and  mitigating  the 
various climate change risks. This strategy includes setting and pursuing targets as further described in section 3.2.3 of 
this MD&A entitled “Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Program.” Our ability to lower GHG emissions on both 
an absolute basis and in respect of our 2030 reduction targets is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including 
our ability to identify, develop and implement new technologies and processes at a reasonable long-term cost that aligns 
with our low-cost production model; securing key management expertise specific to required technologies; and our ability 
to continue to finance these investments over the long-term. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will achieve 
our targets on a timely basis or at all, or that achieving our targets will meet the expectations of our stakeholders or satisfy 
evolving government legislation. Also, our actions taken to implement these objectives may expose us to certain additional 
heightened  financial  and  operational  risks,  including  potentially  limiting  capacity  expansion  plans,  business  acquisition 
opportunities  and  other  growth  initiatives.  Additionally,  costs  related  to  implementing  our  ESG  strategy  as  it  relates  to 
climate change and environmental initiatives may be higher than anticipated, and we may not be able to pass on higher 
costs to our customers.

Increasingly, investors and other stakeholders are monitoring and assessing companies on climate-related performance.  
Failure to achieve our GHG targets, or a perception among investors that our targets lack ambition and/or are deemed to 
be  insufficient,  could  adversely  affect  the  Company’s  reputation  and  ability  to  attract  capital.  The  Company’s  ability  to 
access  capital  may  also  be  negatively  affected  in  the  event  that  financial  institutions,  investors,  rating  agencies  and/or 
lenders adopt more restrictive decarbonization policies that the Company may not meet.    

Overall, the physical and transitional risks relating to the effects of climate change on our business both in the short and 
long  term  are  complex  and  highly  uncertain.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  we  will  be  successful  in  mitigating  these 
risks,  and  if  we  are  not  successful  in  this  regard,  such  outcome  could  heighten  other  business  risks  described  in  this 
MD&A  and  have  an  adverse  effect  on  our  future  sales,  competitive  position  and  market  share,  financial  position, 
profitability,  cost  structure,  capital  expenditure  requirements,  capacity,  growth  plans,  distribution  network,  supply  chain, 
sources of financing, reputation, and our ability to achieve our strategic financial and ESG objectives.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 44

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Compliance with product safety regulations 
We are subject to consumer product safety laws and regulations that could affect our business. In the United States, we 
are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, 
the  Federal  Hazardous  Substances  Act,  the  Flammable  Fabrics  Act,  the  Toxic  Substances  Control  Act,  and  associated 
rules  and  regulations.  Such  laws  provide  for  substantial  penalties  for  non-compliance.  These  statutes  and  regulations 
include requirements for testing and certification for flammability of wearing apparel, for lead content and lead in surface 
coatings  in  children’s  products,  and  for  phthalate  content  in  childcare  articles,  including  plasticized  components  of 
children’s  sleepwear.  We  are  also  subject  to  similar  laws  and  regulations,  and  to  additional  warning  and  reporting 
requirements, in specific U.S. states in which we sell our products. 

In  Canada,  we  are  subject  to  similar  laws  and  regulations,  including  the  Hazardous  Products  Act  and  the  Canada 
Consumer Product Safety Act. In the European Union, we are also subject to the General Product Safety Directive and 
the  Registration,  Evaluation,  Authorisation  and  Restriction  of  Chemicals  (REACH),  which  places  responsibility  on  all 
manufacturers  to  identify  and  manage  the  risks  that  chemical  substances  may  pose  to  human  health  and  to  the 
environment. We are also subject to similar laws and regulations in the other jurisdictions in which we sell our products.

Compliance  with  existing  and  future  product  safety  laws  and  regulations  and  enforcement  policies  may  require  that  we 
incur  capital  and  other  costs,  which  may  be  significant.  Non-compliance  with  applicable  product  safety  laws  and 
regulations  may  result  in  substantial  fines  and  penalties,  costs  related  to  the  recall,  replacement  and  disposal  of  non-
compliant  products,  as  well  as  negative  publicity  which  could  harm  our  reputation  and  result  in  a  loss  of  sales.  Our 
customers  may  also  require  us  to  meet  existing  and  additional  consumer  safety  requirements,  which  may  result  in  our 
inability to provide the products in the manner required. Although we believe that we comply in all material respects with 
applicable product safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, the extent of our liability and risk of 
business  interruption,  if  any,  due  to  failures  to  comply  with  laws,  regulations,  and  permits  applicable  to  our  operations 
cannot be reasonably determined.

We may be negatively impacted by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to domestic and 
foreign employment regulations
We employ approximately 51,000 employees worldwide. As a result, changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our 
relationships  with  our  employees,  including  wage  and  human  resources  laws  and  regulations,  fair  labour  standards, 
overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, and payroll taxes, would likely have a direct impact 
on our operating costs. The majority of our employees are employed outside Canada and the United States. A significant 
increase in wage rates or the cost of benefit programs in the countries in which we operate could have a negative impact 
on our operating costs. 
The  Company  has  historically  been  able  to  operate  in  a  productive  manner  in  all  of  its  manufacturing  facilities  without 
experiencing  significant  labour  disruptions,  such  as  strikes  or  work  stoppages.  Many  of  our  employees  are  members  of 
labour organizations, and the Company is party to a number of collective bargaining agreements, primarily relating to its 
sewing operations in Nicaragua and Honduras. If labour relations were to change or deteriorate at any of our facilities or 
any of our third-party contractors’ facilities, this could negatively affect the productivity and cost structure of the Company’s 
manufacturing operations.

We  may  experience  negative  publicity  as  a  result  of  actual,  alleged,  or  perceived  violations  of  labour  laws  or 
international labour standards, unethical labour, and other business practices 
We are committed to ensuring that all of our operations and contractor operations comply with our strict internal Code of 
Conduct,  local  and  international  laws,  and  the  codes  and  principles  to  which  we  subscribe,  including  those  of  the  Fair 
Labor  Association  (FLA)  and  the  Worldwide  Responsible  Accredited  Production  (WRAP).  While  the  majority  of  our 
manufacturing operations are conducted through Company-owned facilities, we also utilize third-party contractors, which 
we do not control, to complement our vertically integrated production. If one of our own manufacturing operations or one 
of  our  third-party  contractors  or  sub-contractors  violates  or  is  accused  of  violating  local  or  international  labour  laws  or 
other  applicable  regulations,  or  engages  in  labour  or  other  business  practices  that  would  be  viewed,  in  any  market  in 
which our products are sold, as unethical, we could experience negative publicity which could harm our reputation or the 
social  acceptability  of  our  products,  which  could  impact  our  ability  to  retain  existing  customers  or  attract  new  ones  and 
result  in  a  loss  of  sales,  which,  in  turn,  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  our  financial  condition,  results  of 
operations, business or cash flows.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 45

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

We may be negatively impacted by changes in third-party licensing arrangements and licensed brands
A number of products are designed, manufactured, sourced, and sold under trademarks that we license from third parties, 
under  contractual  licensing  relationships  that  are  subject  to  periodic  renewal.  Because  we  do  not  control  the  brands 
licensed  to  us,  our  licensors  could  make  changes  to  their  brands  or  business  models  that  could  result  in  a  significant 
downturn in a brand’s business, negatively affecting our sales and results of operations. If any licensor fails to adequately 
maintain  or  protect  their  trademarks,  engages  in  behaviour  with  respect  to  the  licensed  marks  that  would  cause  us 
reputational harm, or if any of the brands licensed to us violates the trademark rights of a third-party or are deemed to be 
invalid  or  unenforceable,  we  could  experience  a  significant  downturn  in  that  brand’s  business,  negatively  affecting  our 
sales and results of operations, and we may be required to expend significant amounts on public relations, advertising, 
legal, and other related costs. In addition, if any of these licensors choose to cease licensing these brands to us in the 
future, our sales and results of operations would be negatively affected. 

Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights
Our  trademarks  are  important  to  our  marketing  efforts  and  have  substantial  value.  We  aggressively  protect  these 
trademarks  from  infringement  and  dilution  through  appropriate  measures  including  court  actions  and  administrative 
proceedings; however, the actions we have taken and expect to continue to take to establish and protect our trademarks 
and  other  intellectual  property  may  not  be  adequate.  We  cannot  be  certain  that  others  will  not  imitate  our  products  or 
infringe  our  intellectual  property  rights.  Infringement  or  counterfeiting  of  our  products  could  diminish  the  value  of  our 
brands or otherwise negatively affect our business. In addition, unilateral actions in the United States or other countries, 
such as changes to or the repeal of laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights, could have an impact 
on our ability to enforce those rights. 

From  time  to  time,  we  are  involved  in  opposition  and  cancellation  proceedings  with  respect  to  our  intellectual  property, 
which could affect its validity, enforceability, and use. The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert 
rights in, or ownership of, or oppose our applications to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. In 
some  cases,  there  may  be  trademark  owners  who  have  prior  rights  to  our  trademarks  or  to  similar  trademarks,  which 
could harm our ability to sell products under or register such trademarks. In addition, we have registered trademarks in 
certain foreign jurisdictions and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same 
extent  as  do  the  laws  of  the  United  States  or  Canada.  We  do  not  own  trademark  rights  to  all  of  our  brands  in  all 
jurisdictions,  which  may  limit  the  future  sales  growth  of  certain  branded  products  in  such  jurisdictions.  Furthermore, 
actions we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent others from seeking to 
invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of 
others.

In some cases, litigation may be necessary to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, to enforce our 
rights or defend against claims by third parties alleging that we infringe, dilute, misappropriate, or otherwise violate third-
party  trademark  or  other  intellectual  property  rights.  Any  litigation  or  claims  brought  by  or  against  us,  whether  with  or 
without merit, and whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could 
have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Any intellectual property 
litigation  claims  against  us  could  result  in  the  loss  or  compromise  of  our  intellectual  property  rights,  could  subject  us  to 
significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses on unfavorable terms, if available at all, and/or require us to rebrand our 
products  and  services,  any  of  which  could  negatively  affect  our  business,  results  of  operations,  financial  condition,  and 
cash flows.

We rely significantly on our information systems for our business operations 
We place significant reliance on our information systems. Our information systems consist of a full range of supply chain 
and  financial  systems.  The  systems  include  applications  related  to  product  development,  planning,  manufacturing, 
distribution, sales, human resources, analytics, and financial reporting. We depend on our information systems to operate 
our  business  and  make  key  decisions.  These  activities  include  forecasting  demand,  purchasing  raw  materials  and 
supplies,  designing  products,  scheduling  and  managing  production,  selling  to  our  customers,  responding  to  customer, 
supplier  and  other  inquiries,  managing  inventories,  shipping  goods  on  a  timely  basis,  managing  our  employees,  and 
summarizing  results. There  can  be  no  assurance  that  we  will  not  experience  operational  problems  with  our  information 
systems as a result of system failures, viruses, information security incidents, cyber security incidents, disasters or other 
causes, or in connection with upgrades to our systems or implementation of new systems. In addition, there can be no 
assurance that we will be able to timely modify or adapt our systems to meet evolving requirements for our business. Any 
material  disruption  or  slowdown  of  our  systems  could  cause  operational  delays  and  other  impacts  that  could  negatively 
affect our business and results of operations. 

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 46

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

We may be negatively impacted by data security breaches or data privacy violations 
Our  business  involves  the  regular  collection  and  use  of  sensitive  and  confidential  information  regarding  employees, 
customers,  business  partners,  vendors,  and  other  third  parties.  These  activities  are  highly  regulated,  and  privacy  and 
information security laws are complex and constantly changing. Non-compliance with these laws and regulations can lead 
to  legal  liability  and  reputational  risk.  Furthermore,  an  information  technology  system  failure  or  non-availability,  cyber 
security  incident,  or  breach  of  systems  could  disrupt  our  operations,  cause  the  loss  of,  corruption  of,  or  unauthorized 
access to business information and data, compromise confidential information, or expose us to regulatory investigation, 
litigation,  or  contractual  penalties.  Divergent  technology  systems  inherited  through  business  acquisitions  increase 
complexity and potential exposure. We use a risk-based approach to mitigating information security risk and data privacy 
risk.  We  continue  to  invest  in  and  improve  our  data  privacy  practices,  data  security  threat  protection,  detection  and 
mitigation  policies,  procedures  and  controls,  and  awareness  campaigns  to  enhance  data  protection.  We  seek  to  detect 
and  investigate  all  incidents  and  to  prevent  their  occurrence  or  recurrence.  Senior  leadership  provides  updates  to  the 
Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee of any major data security or privacy issues on a quarterly 
basis, provides quarterly information security reports to the Audit and Finance Committee, provides strategic updates to 
the Board of Directors on an annual basis, and has a process in place to communicate time sensitive issues to the Board 
on an as-needed basis. We are unaware of any material data security or privacy issues over the past three years, and 
expenses  incurred  from  data  security  breaches  and  privacy  violations  have  been  negligible  over  this  period.  However, 
given  the  highly  evolving  nature  and  sophistication  of  security  threats  and  data  privacy  laws,  the  impact  of  any  future 
incident  cannot  be  easily  predicted  or  mitigated,  and  the  costs  related  to  such  incidents  may  not  be  fully  insured  or 
indemnified by other means.

We depend on key management and our ability to attract and/or retain key personnel
Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, some of whom have unique talents and 
experience and would be difficult to replace in the short term. The loss or interruption of the services of a key executive 
could  have  a  negative  effect  on  our  business  during  the  transitional  period  that  would  be  required  to  restructure  the 
organization  or  for  a  successor  to  assume  the  responsibilities  of  the  key  management  position.  Our  future  success  will 
also depend on our ability to attract, hire and retain key managers, sales people, and other personnel. Experienced and 
highly  skilled  employees  are  in  high  demand  and  competition  for  these  employees  can  be  intense,  and  our  ability  to 
attract, hire and retain them depends on our ability to provide competitive compensation. We may not be able to attract, 
hire or retain these employees, which could negatively affect our business.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 47

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

16.0 Definition and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures

We  use  non-GAAP  financial  measures,  as  well  as  non-GAAP  ratios  to  assess  our  operating  performance  and  financial 
condition. The terms and definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures used in this MD&A and a reconciliation of each 
non-GAAP  measure  to  the  most  directly  comparable  GAAP  measure  are  provided  below.  The  non-GAAP  financial 
measures are presented on a consistent basis for all periods presented in this MD&A. These measures do not have any 
standardized meanings prescribed by IFRS and are therefore unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by 
other companies. Accordingly, they should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. 

Non-GAAP financial measures and related ratios
In this MD&A we use non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net earnings, adjusted operating income, adjusted 
gross  profit,  adjusted  EBITDA,  as  well  as  non-GAAP  ratios  including  adjusted  diluted  EPS,  adjusted  operating  margin, 
adjusted gross margin and return on adjusted average net assets (Adjusted RONA). These financial metrics are used to 
measure  our  performance  and  financial  condition  from  one  period  to  the  next,  which  excludes  the  variation  caused  by 
certain  adjustments  that  could  potentially  distort  the  analysis  of  trends  in  our  operating  performance,  and  because  we 
believe such measures provide meaningful information on the Company’s financial performance and financial condition. 
Excluding  these  items  does  not  imply  they  are  necessarily  non-recurring.  We  also  use  non-GAAP  financial  measures 
including free cash flow, total debt, net debt, net debt leverage ratio and working capital. 

Certain adjustments to non-GAAP measures
As  noted  above  certain  of  our  non-GAAP  financial  measures  and  ratios  exclude  the  variation  caused  by  certain 
adjustments  that  affect  the  comparability  of  the  Company's  financial  results  and  could  potentially  distort  the  analysis  of 
trends in its business performance. Adjustments which impact more than one non-GAAP financial measure and ratio are 
explained below:  

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs
Restructuring and acquisition-related costs are comprised of costs directly related to significant exit activities, including the 
closure of business locations and sale of business locations or the relocation of business activities, significant changes in 
management  structure,  as  well  as  transaction,  exit,  and  integration  costs  incurred  pursuant  to  business  acquisitions. 
Restructuring and acquisition-related costs is included as an adjustment in arriving at adjusted operating income, adjusted 
operating  margin,  adjusted  net  earnings,  adjusted  diluted  EPS,  and  adjusted  EBITDA.  Restructuring  and  acquisition-
related  costs  were  $0.5  million  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  January  1,  2023  (2021  -  $8  million,  2020  -  $48  million). 
Subsection  5.5.5  entitled  “Restructuring  and  acquisition-related  costs”  in  this  MD&A  contains  a  detailed  discussion  of 
these costs.

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets or impairment reversal of intangible assets, net of write-downs
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020 we recorded an impairment charge for our Hosiery cash-generating unit (CGU) of 
$94  million,  relating  to  goodwill  and  intangible  assets  acquired  during  previous  sock  and  hosiery  business  acquisitions. 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 we reported a $32 million credit to income, as a result of an impairment reversal of 
$56  million  and  a  $24  million  write-off  of  certain  intangible  assets  relating  to  the  Company's  Hosiery  CGU.  During  the 
fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2022  we  reported  an  impairment  charge  of  $62  million  relating  to  the  Company's  Hosiery  CGU. 
These  impairment  charges  and  impairment  reversals  are  included  as  adjustments  in  arriving  at  adjusted  operating 
income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS, and adjusted EBITDA. 

Net insurance losses (gains)
Net  insurance  gains  of  $26  million  (2021  -  $46  million,  2020  -  $10  million)  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  January  1,  2023, 
related to the two hurricanes which impacted the Company’s operations in Central America in November 2020. The net 
insurance  gains  reflected  costs  of  $7  million  (2021  -  $55  million,  2020  -  $101  million)  (mainly  attributable  to  equipment 
repairs, salary and benefits continuation for idle employees, and other costs and charges), which were more than offset by 
related  accrued  insurance  recoveries  of  $33  million  (2021  -  $101  million,  2020  -  $111  million)  during  fiscal  2022.  The 
insurance  gains  primarily  relate  to  accrued  insurance  recoveries  at  replacement  cost  value  for  damaged  equipment  in 
excess  of  the  write-off  of  the  net  book  value  of  property  plant  and  equipment,  as  well  as  the  recognition  of  insurance 
recoveries  for  business  interruption,  when  applicable.  Net  insurance  gains  is  included  as  an  adjustment  in  arriving  at 
adjusted  gross  profit  and  adjusted  gross  margin,  adjusted  operating  income,  adjusted  operating  margin,  adjusted  net 
earnings, adjusted diluted EPS, and adjusted EBITDA.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 48

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Discontinuance of personal protective equipment (PPE) stock keeping units (SKUs)
A  charge  of  $6  million  for  the  three  and  twelve  months  ended  January  3,  2021  (included  in  cost  of  sales)  reflects  the 
discontinuance of these PPE SKUs given that they are not in the Company’s normal product line and that these shortages 
have now been addressed. Discontinuance of PPE SKUs is included as an adjustment in arriving at adjusted gross profit 
and adjusted gross margin, adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted 
EPS, and adjusted EBITDA.

Impact of strategic product line initiatives
In  the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2019,  the  Company  launched  a  strategic  initiative  to  significantly  reduce  its  imprintables 
product  line  SKU  count.  In  the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2020  the  Company  expanded  this  strategic  initiative  to  include  a 
significant reduction in its retail product line SKU count. The objectives of this strategic initiative include exiting all ship to-
the-piece  activities,  discontinuing  overlapping  and  less  productive  styles  and  SKUs  between  brands,  simplifying  the 
Company's  product  portfolio  and  reducing  complexity  in  its  manufacturing  and  warehouse  distribution  activities.  The 
impact of this initiative has included inventory write-downs to reduce the carrying value of discontinued SKUs to liquidation 
values, sales return allowances for product returns related to discontinued SKUs, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, 
the write-down of production equipment and other assets relating to discontinued SKUs. The impact of strategic product 
line  initiatives  is  included  as  an  adjustment  in  arriving  at  adjusted  gross  profit  and  adjusted  gross  margin,  adjusted 
operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS, and adjusted EBITDA.

The charges related to this initiative in fiscal 2020, 2021 and 2022, were as follows: 

•

•

•

Fiscal 2020 includes a charge of $26 million of inventory write-downs included in cost of sales related to retail 
product line discontinued SKUs. Fiscal 2020 also includes $29 million of inventory write-downs included in cost of 
sales and the $5 million gross profit impact of a sales return allowance for anticipated product returns related to 
imprintables  product  line  discontinued  SKUs  (the  sales  return  allowance  reduced  net  sales  by  $11  million  and 
cost of sales by $6 million). 

Fiscal  2021  includes  $9  million  of  charges  included  in  cost  of  sales,  consisting  of  $4  million  in  inventory  write-
downs  related  primarily  to  the  Company's  plan  to  discontinue  its  legwear  and  intimates  product  line,  and  the 
write-down  of  production  equipment  and  other  assets  relating  to  discontinued  SKUs  of  $5  million  in  the  fourth 
quarter of 2021.

Fiscal 2022 includes $1 million gain related to the reversal of a reserve relating to Company's strategic initiatives 
to significantly reduce its product line SKU counts.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 49

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS
Adjusted  net  earnings  are  calculated  as  net  earnings  before  restructuring  and  acquisition-related  costs,  impairment  of 
goodwill and intangible assets (and reversal of impairments on intangible assets), net insurance gains, the discontinuance 
of PPE SKUs, the impact of the Company's strategic product line initiatives, and income tax expense or recovery relating 
to  these  items.  Adjusted  net  earnings  also  excludes  income  taxes  related  to  the  re-assessment  of  the  probability  of 
realization  of  previously  recognized  or  de-recognized  deferred  income  tax  assets,  and  income  taxes  relating  to  the 
revaluation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as a result of statutory income tax rate changes in the countries in 
which we operate. Adjusted diluted EPS is calculated as adjusted net earnings divided by the diluted weighted average 
number of common shares outstanding. The Company uses adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS to measure 
its net earnings performance from one period to the next, and in making decisions regarding the ongoing operations of its 
business, without the variation caused by the impacts of the items described above. The Company excludes these items 
because they affect the comparability of its net earnings and diluted EPS and could potentially distort the analysis of net 
earnings trends in its business performance. The Company believes adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are 
useful to investors because they help identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by certain 
expenses, write-offs, charges, income or recoveries that can vary from period to period. Excluding these items does not 
imply they are necessarily non-recurring. These measures do not have any standardized meanings prescribed by IFRS 
and are therefore unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.

(in $ millions, except per share amounts)

Net earnings (loss)
Adjustments for:

Three months ended
January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

Twelve months ended
January 2, 
2022

January 1, 
2023

January 3, 
2021

83.9   

173.9   

541.5   

607.2   

(225.3) 

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

6.3   

4.2   

0.5   

8.2   

48.2 

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 

(Impairment reversal of intangible assets, net of 
write-downs)

Impact of strategic product line initiatives

Discontinuance of PPE SKUs

Net insurance (gains) losses
Income tax expense (recovery) relating to the above-

noted adjustments

Income tax recovery related to the revaluation of 
deferred income tax assets and liabilities(1)

Adjusted net earnings (loss)
Diluted EPS 
Adjusted diluted EPS(2)

62.3   

(31.5)  

—   

—   

(25.6)  

7.6   

—   

2.9   

62.3   

(1.0)  

—   

(31.5)  

8.8   

—   

94.0 

60.0 

6.2 

(25.9)  

(46.0)  

(9.6) 

0.2   

—   

7.2   

—   

(4.6) 

(9.9)  
117.2   
0.47   
0.65   

(8.6)  
148.5   
0.89   
0.76   

(9.9)  
574.7   
2.93   
3.11   

(8.6)  
538.1   
3.07   
2.72   

(5.2) 
(36.3) 
(1.14) 
(0.18) 

(1) Includes an income tax recovery of $9.9 million (2021 - $8.6 million, 2020 - $5.2 million) pursuant to the recognition of previously de-
recognized (in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 pursuant to the organizational realignment plan) deferred income tax assets as a result of a re-
assessment of the probability of realization of such deferred income tax assets.
(2) This is a non-GAAP ratio. It is calculated as adjusted net earnings (loss) divided by the diluted weighted average number of common 
shares outstanding.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 50

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin
Adjusted gross profit is calculated as gross profit excluding the impact of net insurance gains, the discontinuance of PPE 
SKUs,  and  the  impact  of  the  Company's  strategic  product  line  initiatives. The  Company  uses  adjusted  gross  profit  and 
adjusted  gross  margin  to  measure  its  performance  at  the  gross  margin  level  from  one  period  to  the  next,  without  the 
variation caused by the impacts of the items described above. The Company excludes these items because they affect 
the  comparability  of  its  financial  results  and  could  potentially  distort  the  analysis  of  trends  in  its  business  performance. 
Excluding these items does not imply they are necessarily non-recurring. The Company believes adjusted gross profit and 
adjusted  gross  margin  are  useful  to  management  and  investors  because  they  help  identify  underlying  trends  in  our 
business in how efficiently the Company uses labor and materials for manufacturing goods to our customers, that could 
otherwise  be  masked  by  the  impact  of  our  strategic  product  line  initiatives  and  net  insurance  gains  that  can  vary  from 
period to period. These measures do not have any standardized meanings prescribed by IFRS and are therefore unlikely 
to be comparable to similar measures presented by other companies.

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Gross profit
Adjustments for:

Impact of strategic product line initiatives
Discontinuance of PPE SKUs
Net insurance (gains) losses

Adjusted gross profit

Net sales
Sales return allowance for anticipated product returns

Net sales excluding the allowance for anticipated 
product returns related to discontinued SKUs

Gross margin
Adjusted gross margin(1)

Three months ended
January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

Twelve months ended
January 2, 
2022

January 1, 
2023

January 3, 
2021

234.8 

229.3 

992.4 

940.2 

249.1 

— 
— 
(25.6) 
209.2 

720.0 
— 

7.6 
— 
2.9 
239.8 

784.3 
— 

(1.0) 
— 
(25.9) 
965.5 

8.8 
— 
(46.0) 
903.0 

60.0 
6.2 
(9.6) 
305.7 

  3,240.5 
— 

  2,922.6 
— 

  1,981.3 
11.2 

720.0 

784.3 

  3,240.5 

  2,922.6 

  1,992.5 

 32.6 %
 29.1 %

 29.2 %
 30.6 %

 30.6 %
 29.8 %

 32.2 %
 30.9 %

 12.6 %
 15.3 %

(1)  This  is  a  non-GAAP  ratio.  It  is  calculated  as  adjusted  gross  profit  divided  by  net  sales  excluding  the  sales  return  allowance  for 
anticipated product returns related to discontinued SKUs. Net sales excluding the sales return allowance for anticipated product returns 
related to discontinued SKUs is a non-GAAP measure used in the denominator of the adjusted margin ratios to reverse the full effect of 
the SKU rationalization adjustments.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 51

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin
Adjusted operating income is calculated as operating income before restructuring and acquisition-related costs. Adjusted 
operating income also excludes impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, net insurance gains, the discontinuance of 
PPE SKUs, and the impact of the Company's strategic product line initiatives. Adjusted operating margin is calculated as 
adjusted  operating  income  divided  by  net  sales,  excluding  the  sales  return  allowance  for  anticipated  product  returns 
related to discontinued SKUs. Management uses adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin to measure its 
performance at the operating income level as we believe it provides a better indication of our operating performance and 
facilitates  the  comparison  across  reporting  periods,  without  the  variation  caused  by  the  impacts  of  the  items  described 
above.  The  Company  excludes  these  items  because  they  affect  the  comparability  of  its  financial  results  and  could 
potentially distort the analysis of trends in its operating income and operating margin performance. The Company believes 
adjusted  operating  income  and  adjusted  operating  margin  are  useful  to  investors  because  they  help  identify  underlying 
trends in our business in how efficiently the Company generates profit from its primary operations that could otherwise be 
masked by the impact of restructuring and acquisition-related costs, our strategic product line initiatives and net insurance 
gains that can vary from period to period. Excluding these items does not imply they are necessarily non-recurring. These 
measures  do  not  have  any  standardized  meanings  prescribed  by  IFRS  and  are  therefore  unlikely  to  be  comparable  to 
similar measures presented by other companies. 

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Operating income (loss)
Adjustments for:

Three months ended
January 1,
2023

January 2,
2022

Twelve months ended
January 2,
2022

January 1,
2023

January 3, 
2021

92.6 

177.1 

603.4 

651.9 

(180.8) 

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

6.3 

4.2 

0.5 

8.2 

48.2 

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 
(Impairment reversal of intangible assets, 
net of write-downs) 

Impact of strategic product line initiatives

Discontinuance of PPE SKUs

Net insurance (gains) losses

Adjusted operating income
Operating margin
Adjusted operating margin(1)

62.3 

— 

— 

(25.6) 
135.6 

 12.9 %
 18.8 %

(31.5) 

7.6 

— 

2.9 
160.3 

 22.6 %
 20.4 %

62.3 

(1.0) 

— 

(25.9) 
639.3 

 18.6 %
 19.7 %

(31.5) 

8.8 

— 

(46.0) 
591.4 

 22.3 %
 20.2 %

94.0 

60.0 

6.2 

(9.6) 
18.0 
 (9.1) %
 0.9 %

(1) This is a non-GAAP ratio. It is calculated as adjusted operating income divided by net sales excluding the sales return allowance for 
anticipated product returns related to discontinued SKUs. Net sales excluding the sales return allowance for anticipated product returns 
related to discontinued SKUs is a non-GAAP measure used in the denominator of the adjusted margin ratios to reverse the full effect of 
the SKU rationalization adjustments.
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 52

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Adjusted EBITDA
Adjusted  EBITDA  is  calculated  as  earnings  before  financial  expenses  net,  income  taxes,  and  depreciation  and 
amortization,  and  excludes  the  impact  of  restructuring  and  acquisition-related  costs.  Adjusted  EBITDA  also  excludes 
impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and reversal of impairments on intangible assets, net insurance gains, the 
discontinuance  of  PPE  SKUs,  and  the  impact  of  the  Company's  strategic  product  line  initiative.  Management  uses 
adjusted  EBITDA,  among  other  measures,  to  facilitate  a  comparison  of  the  profitability  of  its  business  on  a  consistent 
basis from period-to-period and to provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. 
The Company also believes this measure is commonly used by investors and analysts to assess profitability and the cost 
structure  of  companies  within  the  industry,  as  well  as  measure  a  company’s  ability  to  service  debt  and  to  meet  other 
payment  obligations,  or  as  a  common  valuation  measurement.  The  Company  excludes  depreciation  and  amortization 
expenses, which are non-cash in nature and can vary significantly depending upon accounting methods or non-operating 
factors.  Excluding  these  items  does  not  imply  they  are  necessarily  non-recurring.  This  measure  does  not  have  any 
standardized meanings prescribed by IFRS and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by 
other companies. 

(in $ millions)

Net earnings (loss)

Restructuring and acquisition-related costs

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 
(Impairment reversal of intangible assets, net of 
write-downs) 

Impact of strategic product line initiatives

Discontinuance of PPE SKUs

Net insurance (gains) losses

Depreciation and amortization

Financial expenses, net

Income tax (recovery) expense

Adjusted EBITDA

Three months ended

Twelve months ended

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

January 3, 
2021

83.9   

6.3   

173.9   

541.5   

607.2   

(225.3) 

4.2   

0.5   

8.2   

48.2 

62.3   

(31.5)  

—   

—   

(25.6)  

28.0   

13.3   

(4.6)  

7.6   

—   

2.9   

29.6   

4.7   

(1.5)  

62.3   

(1.0)  

—   

(25.9)  

124.9   

37.0   

24.9   

(31.5)  

8.8   

—   

(46.0)  

135.4   

27.3   

17.4   

94.0 

60.0 

6.2 

(9.6) 

147.2 

48.5 

(4.1) 

163.6   

189.9   

764.2   

726.8   

165.1 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Free cash flow
Free cash flow is defined as cash from operating activities, less cash flow used in investing activities excluding cash flows 
relating to business acquisitions/dispositions. The Company considers free cash flow to be an important indicator of the 
financial  strength  and  liquidity  of  its  business,  and  it  is  a  key  metric  used  by  management  in  managing  capital  as  it 
indicates how much cash is available after capital expenditures to repay debt, to pursue business acquisitions, and/or to 
redistribute  to  its  shareholders.  Management  believes  that  free  cash  flow  also  provides  investors  with  an  important 
perspective on the cash available to us to service debt, fund acquisitions, and pay dividends. In addition, free cash flow is 
commonly  used  by  investors  and  analysts  when  valuing  a  business  and  its  underlying  assets.  This  measure  does  not 
have  any  standardized  meanings  prescribed  by  IFRS  and  is  therefore  unlikely  to  be  comparable  to  similar  measures 
presented by other companies. 

(in $ millions)

Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows used in investing activities

Adjustment for:
  Business (dispositions) acquisitions
Free cash flow

2022

2021

2020

413.5   
(182.4)  

617.5   
(187.8)  

415.0 
(57.5) 

(33.5)  
197.6   

164.0   
593.7   

— 
357.5 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 53

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Total debt and net debt
Total debt is defined as the total bank indebtedness, long-term debt (including any current portion), and lease obligations 
(including any current portion), and net debt is calculated as total debt net of cash and cash equivalents. The Company 
considers total debt and net debt to be important indicators for management and investors to assess the financial position 
and  liquidity  of  the  Company,  and  measure  its  financial  leverage.  These  measures  do  not  have  any  standardized 
meanings  prescribed  by  IFRS  and  are  therefore  unlikely  to  be  comparable  to  similar  measures  presented  by  other 
companies. 

(in $ millions)

Long-term debt (including current portion)

Bank indebtedness

Lease obligations (including current portion)

Total debt

Cash and cash equivalents
Net debt

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

January 3, 
2021

930.0   

600.0   

1,000.0 

—   

94.0   

—   

109.1   

— 

82.5 

1,024.0   

709.1   

1,082.5 

(150.4)  
873.6   

(179.2)  
529.9   

(505.3) 
577.2 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Net debt leverage ratio
The net debt leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of net debt to pro-forma adjusted EBITDA for the trailing twelve months, 
all  of  which  are  non-GAAP  measures.  The  pro-forma  adjusted  EBITDA  for  the  trailing  twelve  months  reflects  business 
acquisitions  made  during  the  period,  as  if  they  had  occurred  at  the  beginning  of  the  trailing  twelve  month  period.  The 
Company has set a fiscal year-end net debt leverage target ratio of one to two times pro-forma adjusted EBITDA for the 
trailing  twelve  months. The  net  debt  leverage  ratio  serves  to  evaluate  the  Company's  financial  leverage  and  is  used  by 
management in its decisions on the Company's capital structure, including financing strategy. The Company believes that 
certain investors and analysts use the net debt leverage ratio to measure the financial leverage of the Company, including 
our ability to pay off our incurred debt. The Company's net debt leverage ratio differs from the net debt to EBITDA ratio 
that is a covenant in our loan and note agreements due primarily to adjustments in the latter related to lease accounting, 
and  therefore  the  Company  believes  it  is  a  useful  additional  measure.  This  measure  does  not  have  any  standardized 
meanings  prescribed  by  IFRS  and  is  therefore  unlikely  to  be  comparable  to  similar  measures  presented  by  other 
companies. 

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

Adjusted EBITDA for the trailing twelve months
Adjustment for:
  Business acquisitions 
Pro-forma adjusted EBITDA for the trailing twelve months

Net debt
Net debt leverage ratio(1)

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

January 3, 
2021

764.2   

726.8   

165.1 

—   
764.2   

873.6   
1.1   

22.8   
749.6   

529.9   
0.7   

— 
165.1 

577.2 
3.5 

(1) The  Company's  total  net  debt  to  EBITDA  ratio  for  purposes  of  its  loan  and  note  agreements  was 1.3  at  January  1,  2023.  Refer  to 
section 8.2 of this MD&A. 
Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 54

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Return on adjusted average net assets
Return on adjusted average net assets (Adjusted RONA) is defined as the ratio of return to adjusted average net assets 
for the last five quarters. Return is defined as adjusted net earnings, excluding net financial expenses and the amortization 
of intangible assets (excluding software), net of income tax recoveries related thereto. Average is computed as the sum of 
the five quarters divided by five. Adjusted average net assets are defined as the sum of average total assets, excluding 
average  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  average  net  deferred  income  taxes,  and  the  average  accumulated  amortization  of 
intangible assets excluding software, less average total current liabilities excluding the current portion of lease obligations. 
Adjusted average net assets and return are non-GAAP measures used as components of Adjusted RONA. The Company 
uses Adjusted RONA as a performance indicator to measure the efficiency of its invested capital. Management believes 
Adjusted RONA is useful to investors as a measure of performance and the effectiveness of our use of capital. Adjusted 
RONA is not a measure of financial performance under IFRS and may not be defined and calculated by other companies 
in the same manner.

(in $ millions)

January 1, 
2023

January 2, 
2022

January 3, 
2021

Average total assets
Average cash and cash equivalents
Average net deferred income taxes
Average accumulated amortization of intangible assets, excluding software
Average total current liabilities, excluding the current portion of lease 
obligations and debt
Adjusted average net assets

3,344.4 
(118.8) 
(12.9) 
254.9 

(485.3) 
2,982.3 

3,050.8 
(384.1) 
(15.6) 
254.8 

(400.1) 
2,505.8 

3,226.9 
(354.7) 
(13.1) 
233.2 

(364.5) 
2,727.8 

(in $ millions, or otherwise indicated)

2022

2021

2020

Adjusted net earnings
Financial expenses, net (nil income taxes in all years)
Amortization of intangible assets, excluding software, net  (nil income taxes 
in all three years)
Return

574.7 
37.0 

13.8 
625.5 

538.1 
27.3 

12.8 
578.2 

(36.3) 
48.5 

14.3 
26.5 

Return on adjusted average net assets (Adjusted RONA)

 21.0 %

 23.1 %

 1.0 %

 Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

Working capital
Working  capital  is  a  non-GAAP  financial  measure  and  is  defined  as  current  assets  less  current  liabilities.  Management 
believes  that  working  capital,  in  addition  to  other  conventional  financial  measures  prepared  in  accordance  with  IFRS, 
provides information that is helpful to understand the financial condition of the Company. The objective of using working 
capital  is  to  present  readers  with  a  view  of  the  Company  from  management’s  perspective  by  interpreting  the  material 
trends  and  activities  that  affect  the  short-term  liquidity  and  financial  position  of  the  Company,  including  its  ability  to 
discharge  its  short-term  liabilities  as  they  come  due.  This  measure  is  not  necessarily  comparable  to  similarly  titled 
measures used by other public companies.

(in $ millions)

Cash and cash equivalents 
Trade accounts receivable 
Income taxes receivable 
Inventories
Prepaid expenses, deposits and other current assets
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
Income taxes payable
Current portion of lease obligations
Current portion of long-term debt
Working capital

January 1,
2023

January 2,
2022

January 3,
2021

150.4   
248.8   
—   
1,225.9   
101.8   
(471.2)  
(6.6)  
(13.8)  
(150.0)  
1,085.3   

179.2   
330.0   
—   
774.4   
163.7   
(440.4)  
(7.9)  
(15.3)  
—   
983.7   

505.3 
196.5 
4.6 
728.0 
110.1 
(343.7) 
— 
(15.9) 
— 
1,184.9 

Certain minor rounding variances exist between the consolidated financial statements and this summary.

GILDAN 2022 REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS 55