# Imperial Oil Limited
# 来源：Annual MD&A - English.pdf (eeca43c576ace2ba)

Management's discussion and analysis of financial 
condition and operating results

For the year ended December 31, 2022

The following management’s discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the company’s 
audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, and the company’s annual report on 
Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2022. Reference to Item 1A. “Risk factors” and specific page 
numbers in this document indicate the section and page numbers found in the company’s annual report on 
Form 10-K. The company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports 
on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports are available online at www.sedar.com, www.sec.gov and the 
company’s website www.imperialoil.ca. 

Unless the context otherwise indicates, reference to the “company” or “Imperial” includes Imperial Oil Limited 
and its subsidiaries, and reference to ExxonMobil includes Exxon Mobil Corporation and its affiliates, as 
appropriate.

All dollar amounts set forth in this report are in Canadian dollars, except where otherwise indicated.
Note that numbers may not add due to rounding.

  
Forward-looking statements 

Statements of future events or conditions in this report, including projections, targets, expectations, estimates, 
and business plans are forward-looking statements. Similarly, discussion of emission-reduction roadmaps or 
future plans related to carbon capture, biofuel, hydrogen, plastics recycling and other plans to drive towards net 
-zero emissions are dependent on future market factors, such as continued technological progress and policy 
support, and represent forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such 
as believe, anticipate, intend, propose, plan, goal, seek, project, predict, target, estimate, expect, strategy, 
outlook, schedule, future, continue, likely, may, should, will and similar references to future periods. Forward-
looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, references to being well positioned to participate 
in future investments and reduce commodity price risk; the company’s long-term business outlook including 
demand, supply and energy mix and pathways related to greenhouse gas emissions; the impact of participation 
in the Pathways alliance; Imperial’s company-wide net-zero goal by 2050 (Scope 1 and 2) and the company’s 
greenhouse gas emissions intensity goal for 2030 for its oil sands operations; the extent of ongoing effects of 
current global economic uncertainty and geopolitical events affecting supply and demand, including inflation, 
and the company’s ability to mitigate cost impacts and offset inflationary pressure; segment growth, competitive 
strategies and benefits from an integrated business model; the ability of the company’s current investment 
strategy of value and select volume growth to deliver robust returns and support long term growth; continued 
evaluation of opportunities such as rail shipments and pace of the Aspen project; the impact of Downstream 
strategies and competitive position and the expected volatility of refining margins; potential impacts from 
environmental risks, carbon policy, climate related regulations and biofuels mandates; the timing and production 
from the renewable diesel facility at Strathcona; the benefits to the Chemical business from integration with the 
Sarnia refinery and relationship with ExxonMobil; capital structure and financial strength as a competitive 
advantage, for risk mitigation and meeting funding requirements; expected full year capital expenditures of 
about $1.7 billion for 2023; earnings sensitivities; risks associated with use of derivative instruments; the impact 
of any pending litigation, accounting standards and unrecognized tax benefits; and standardized measures of 
discounted future cash flow and estimates, development, timing and recovery of reserves.

Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current expectations, estimates, projections and 
assumptions at the time the statements are made. Actual future financial and operating results, including 
expectations and assumptions concerning future energy demand, supply and mix; commodity prices and 
foreign exchange rates; production rates, growth and mix across various assets; production life, resource 
recoveries and reservoir performance; project plans, timing, costs, technical evaluations and capacities, and the 
company’s ability to effectively execute on these plans and operate its assets, including its investment in the 
renewable diesel complex at Strathcona and the Leming, Grand Rapids and LASER projects at Cold Lake; the 
adoption and impact of new facilities or technologies on reductions to GHG emissions intensity, including 
technologies using solvents to replace energy intensive steam at Cold Lake, boiler flue gas technology at Kearl, 
Strathcona renewable diesel, carbon capture and storage including in connection with hydrogen for the 
renewable diesel project, recovery technologies and efficiency projects and any changes in the scope, terms, or 
costs of such projects; that any required support from policymakers and other stakeholders for various new 
technologies such as carbon capture and storage will be provided; for renewable diesel, the availability and cost 
of locally-sourced and grown feedstock and the supply of renewable diesel to British Columbia in connection 
with its low-carbon fuel legislation; the amount and timing of emissions reductions, including the impact of lower 
carbon fuels; performance of third party service providers; receipt of regulatory and third party approvals in a 
timely manner; applicable laws and government policies, including with respect to climate change, GHG 
emissions reductions and low carbon fuels; refinery utilization and product sales; the ability to offset any 
ongoing inflationary pressures; cash generation, financing sources and capital structure, such as dividends and 
shareholder returns, including the timing and amounts of share repurchases; progression of COVID-19 and its 
impacts on Imperial’s ability to operate its assets; capital and environmental expenditures; the capture of 
efficiencies within and between business lines and the ability to maintain near-term cost reductions as ongoing 
efficiencies; and general market conditions could differ materially depending on a number of factors. 

  
These factors include global, regional or local changes in supply and demand for oil, natural gas, petroleum and 
petrochemical products, feedstocks and other market factors, economic conditions or seasonal fluctuations and 
resulting demand, price, differential and margin impacts; transportation for accessing markets; political or 
regulatory events, including changes in law or government policy, applicable royalty rates, tax laws including 
taxes on share buybacks, and actions in response to COVID-19; environmental risks inherent in oil and gas 
activities; environmental regulation, including climate change and greenhouse gas regulation and changes to 
such regulation; government policies supporting lower carbon investment opportunities; failure or delay of 
supportive policy and market development for emerging lower-emission energy technologies; the receipt, in a 
timely manner, of regulatory and third-party approvals; third-party opposition to company and service provider 
operations, projects and infrastructure; availability and allocation of capital; availability and performance of third-
party service providers; unanticipated technical or operational difficulties; management effectiveness and 
disaster response preparedness; commercial negotiations; project management and schedules and timely 
completion of projects; unexpected technological developments; the results of research programs and new 
technologies, including with respect to greenhouse gas emissions, and the ability to bring new technologies to 
commercial scale on a cost-competitive basis;  reservoir analysis and performance; the ability to develop or 
acquire additional reserves; operational hazards and risks; cybersecurity incidents; currency exchange rates; 
the impacts of COVID-19 or other public health crises, including the effects of government responses on people 
and economies; general economic conditions, including the occurrence and duration of economic recessions or 
downturns; and other factors discussed in Item 1A Risk factors and Item 7 Management’s discussion and 
analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and 
uncertainties, some that are similar to other oil and gas companies and some that are unique to Imperial Oil 
Limited. Imperial’s actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by its forward-looking 
statements and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on them. Imperial undertakes no obligation to 
update any forward-looking statements contained herein, except as required by applicable law. 

Forward-looking and other statements regarding Imperial's environmental, social and other sustainability efforts 
and aspirations are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to investors or requiring 
disclosure in the company's filings with securities regulators. In addition, historical, current and forward-looking 
environmental, social and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress 
that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are 
subject to change in the future, including future rule-making. 

Energy demand models are forward-looking by nature and aim to replicate system dynamics of the global 
energy system, requiring simplifications. The reference to any scenario in this report, including any potential net-
zero scenarios, does not imply Imperial views any particular scenario as likely to occur. In addition, energy 
demand scenarios require assumptions on a variety of parameters. As such, the outcome of any given scenario 
using an energy demand model comes with a high degree of uncertainty. For example, the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) describes its Net Zero Emissions (NZE) by 2050 scenario as extremely challenging, requiring 
unprecedented innovation, unprecedented international cooperation and sustained support and participation 
from consumers. Third-party scenarios discussed in this report reflect the modeling assumptions and outputs of 
their respective authors, not Imperial, and their use by Imperial is not an endorsement by the company of their 
underlying assumptions, likelihood or probability. Investment decisions are made on the basis of Imperial’s 
separate planning process. Any use of the modeling of a third-party organization within this report does not 
constitute or imply an endorsement by Imperial of any or all of the positions or activities of such organization. 

The term “project” as used in this report can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily 
have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports.

  
Frequently used terms

Listed below are definitions of several of Imperial’s key business and financial performance measures. The 
definitions are provided to facilitate understanding of the terms and how they are calculated. Certain measures 
included in this document are not prescribed by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These 
measures constitute “non-GAAP financial measures” under Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation G 
and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K, and “specified financial measures” under National Instrument 52-112 Non-
GAAP and Other Financial Measures Disclosure of the Canadian Securities Administrators. 

Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measure, and other 
information required by these regulations, have been provided. Non-GAAP financial measures and specified 
financial measures are not standardized financial measures under GAAP and do not have a standardized 
definition. As such, these measures may not be directly comparable to measures presented by other 
companies, and should not be considered a substitute for GAAP financial measures.

Capital employed 
Capital employed is a non-GAAP financial measure that is a measurement of net investment. When viewed 
from the perspective of how capital is used by the business, it includes the company’s property, plant and 
equipment and other assets, less liabilities, excluding both short-term and long-term debt. When viewed from 
the perspective of the sources of capital employed in total for the company, it includes total debt and equity. The 
most directly comparable financial measure that is disclosed in the financial statements is total assets within the 
company’s Consolidated balance sheet. Both of these views include the company’s share of amounts 
applicable to equity companies, which the company believes should be included to provide a more 
comprehensive measurement of capital employed. 

Reconciliation of capital employed 

millions of Canadian dollars

From the Consolidated balance sheet

Business uses: asset and liability perspective

Total assets

Less: Total current liabilities excluding notes and loans payable

Total long-term liabilities excluding long-term debt

Add:  Imperial’s share of equity company debt

Total capital employed

Total company sources: Debt and equity perspective

Notes and loans payable

Long-term debt

Shareholders’ equity

Add: Imperial’s share of equity company debt

Total capital employed

2022 

2021 

2020 

43,524 

(8,776)   

(8,180)   

25 

26,593 

40,782 

(5,432)   

(8,439)   

20 

26,931 

122 

4,033 

22,413 

25 

26,593 

122 

5,054 

21,735 

20 

26,931 

38,031 

(3,153) 

(8,276) 

26 

26,628 

227 

4,957 

21,418 

26 

26,628 

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Return on average capital employed (ROCE) 
ROCE is a non-GAAP ratio. From the perspective of the business segments, ROCE is annual business 
segment net income divided by average business segment capital employed (an average of the beginning and 
end-of-year amounts). Segment net income includes Imperial’s share of segment net income of equity 
companies, consistent with the definition used for capital employed, and excludes the cost of financing. Capital 
employed is a non-GAAP financial measure and is disclosed and reconciled above. The company’s total ROCE 
is net income excluding the after-tax cost of financing divided by total average capital employed. The company 
has consistently applied its ROCE definition for many years and views it as one of the best measures of 
historical capital productivity in a capital-intensive, long-term industry. Additional measures, which are more 
cash flow based, are used to make investment decisions. 

Components of return on average capital employed 

millions of Canadian dollars

From the Consolidated statement of income

Net income (loss)

Financing (after-tax) including Imperial’s share of equity companies

Net income (loss) excluding financing

Average capital employed

Return on average capital employed (percent) – corporate total

2022 

2021 

2020 

7,340 

55 

7,395 

26,762 

27.6 

2,479 

40 

2,519 

26,780 

9.4 

(1,857) 

52 

(1,805) 

28,059 

(6.4) 

Cash flows from operating activities and asset sales 
Cash flows from operating activities and asset sales is a non-GAAP financial measure that is the sum of the net 
cash provided by operating activities and proceeds from asset sales reported in the Consolidated statement of 
cash flows. This cash flow reflects the total sources of cash both from operating the company’s assets and from 
the divesting of assets. The most directly comparable financial measure that is disclosed in the financial 
statements is cash flows from (used in) operating activities within the company’s Consolidated statement of 
cash flows. The company employs a long-standing and regular disciplined review process to ensure that assets 
are contributing to the company’s strategic objectives. Assets are divested when they no longer meet these 
objectives or are worth considerably more to others. Because of the regular nature of this activity, the company 
believes it is useful for investors to consider sales proceeds together with cash provided by operating activities 
when evaluating cash available for investment in the business and financing activities, including shareholder 
distributions. 

Reconciliation of cash flows from (used in) operating activities and asset sales 

millions of Canadian dollars

From the Consolidated statement of cash flows 

2022 

2021 

2020 

Cash flows from (used in) operating activities

Proceeds from asset sales

Total cash flows from (used in) operating activities and asset sales

10,482 

904 

11,386 

5,476 

81 

5,557 

798 

82 

880 

2

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Operating costs 
Operating costs is a non-GAAP financial measure that are the costs during the period to produce, manufacture, 
and otherwise prepare the company’s products for sale – including energy costs, staffing and maintenance 
costs. It excludes the cost of raw materials, taxes and interest expense and are on a before-tax basis. The most 
directly comparable financial measure that is disclosed in the financial statements is total expenses within the 
company’s Consolidated statement of income. While the company is responsible for all revenue and expense 
elements of net income, operating costs represent the expenses most directly under the company’s control and 
therefore, are useful in evaluating the company’s performance. 

Reconciliation of operating costs 

millions of Canadian dollars

From the Consolidated statement of income

Total expenses

Less:

        Purchases of crude oil and products

        Federal excise tax and fuel charge

        Financing

Subtotal

Imperial's share of equity company expenses

Total operating costs

Components of operating costs

millions of Canadian dollars

From the Consolidated statement of income

Production and manufacturing

Selling and general

Depreciation and depletion (includes impairments)

Non-service pension and postretirement benefit

Exploration

Subtotal

Imperial's share of equity company expenses

Total operating costs

2022 

2021 

2020 

50,186 

34,307 

24,796 

37,742 

2,179 

60 

39,981 

71 

10,276 

23,174 

1,928 

54 

25,156 

61 

9,212 

13,293 

1,736 

64 

15,093 

64 

9,767 

2022 

2021 

2020 

7,404 

882 

1,897 

17 

5 

10,205 

71 

10,276 

6,316 

784 

1,977 

42 

32 

9,151 

61 

9,212 

5,535 

741 

3,293 

121 

13 

9,703 

64 

9,767 

3

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Net income (loss) excluding identified items 
Net income (loss) excluding identified items is a non-GAAP financial measure that is total net income (loss) 
excluding individually significant non-operational events with an absolute corporate total earnings impact of at 
least $100 million in a given quarter. The net income (loss) impact of an identified item for an individual segment 
in a given quarter may be less than $100 million when the item impacts several segments or several periods. 
The most directly comparable financial measure that is disclosed in the financial statements is net income (loss) 
within the company’s Consolidated statement of income. Management uses these figures to improve 
comparability of the underlying business across multiple periods by isolating and removing significant non-
operational events from business results. The company believes this view provides investors increased 
transparency into business results and trends, and provides investors with a view of the business as seen 
through the eyes of management. Net income (loss) excluding identified items is not meant to be viewed in 
isolation or as a substitute for net income (loss) as prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. All identified items 
are presented on an after-tax basis.

Reconciliation of net income (loss) excluding identified items

millions of Canadian dollars

From the Consolidated statement of income

2022 

2021 

2020 

Net income (loss) (U.S. GAAP)

7,340

2,479

(1,857)

Less identified items included in Net income (loss)

Gain/(loss) on sale of assets

Impairments

Subtotal of identified items

208

—

208

—

—

—

Net income (loss) excluding identified items

7,132

2,479

—

(1,171)

(1,171)

(686)

4

 
 
 
 
  
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results 
of operations

Overview

The following discussion and analysis of Imperial’s financial results, as well as the accompanying financial 
statements and related notes to consolidated financial statements to which they refer, are the responsibility of 
the management of Imperial Oil Limited. 

The company’s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its integrated business model involving 
exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas, manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil, 
natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals and a variety of specialty products. 

Imperial, with its resource base, financial strength, disciplined investment approach and technology portfolio, is 
well-positioned to participate in substantial investments to develop new Canadian energy supplies. The 
company’s operating segments are Upstream, Downstream, Chemicals, and Corporate and other. The 
company’s integrated business model generally reduces the company’s risk from changes in commodity prices. 
While commodity prices depend on supply and demand and may be volatile on a short-term basis, Imperial’s 
investment decisions are grounded on fundamentals reflected in its long-term business outlook, and use a 
disciplined approach in selecting and pursuing the most attractive investment opportunities. The Corporate Plan 
is a fundamental annual management process that is the basis for setting operating and capital objectives, in 
addition to providing the economic assumptions used for investment evaluation purposes. The foundation for 
the assumptions supporting the Corporate Plan is ExxonMobil’s Outlook for Energy, and Corporate Plan volume 
projections are based on individual field production profiles, which are also updated annually. Price ranges for 
crude oil, natural gas, including price differentials, refinery and chemical margins, volumes and operating costs 
including greenhouse gas emissions pricing, and foreign currency exchange rates are based on Corporate Plan 
assumptions developed annually and are utilized for investment evaluation purposes. Major investment 
opportunities are evaluated over a range of potential market conditions. Once the company makes major 
investments, it completes a reappraisal process to ensure that it learns from the investment decision and 
incorporates the lessons into future projects.

The term “project” as used in this report can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily 
have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports. 

5

 
  
Business environment 

Long-term business outlook
The “Long-term business outlook” is based on Exxon Mobil Corporation’s Outlook for Energy (the Outlook), 
which combined with the near-term pathways, is used to help inform the company’s long-term business 
strategies and investment plans.

The company’s business planning is underpinned by a deep understanding of long-term market fundamentals. 
These fundamentals include supply and demand trends, the scale and variety of energy needs worldwide; 
capability, practicality and affordability of energy alternatives including low-carbon solutions; greenhouse gas 
emission-reduction technologies; and supportive government policies. The Outlook considers these 
fundamentals to form the basis for the company’s long-term business planning, investment decisions, and 
research programs. The Outlook reflects the company’s view of global energy demand and supply through 
2050. It is a projection based on current trends in technology, government policies, consumer preferences, 
geopolitics, and economic development.

The Outlook uses projections and scenarios from reputable third parties such as the International Energy 
Agency (IEA) and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The IEA describes the Net Zero 
Emissions by 2050 (NZE) as extremely challenging, requiring all stakeholders - governments, businesses, 
investors, and citizens - to take immediate, unprecedented action. The IEA acknowledges that society is not 
currently on the IEA NZE pathway. No single transition pathway can be reasonably predicted, given the wide 
range of uncertainties. Key unknowns include yet-to-be-developed government policies, market conditions, and 
advances in technology that may influence the cost, pace, and potential availability of certain pathways. 
Scenarios that employ a full complement of technology options are likely to provide the most economically 
efficient pathways.

By 2050, the world’s population is projected at around 9.7 billion people, or about 2 billion more than in 2021. 
Coincident with this population increase, the Outlook projects worldwide economic growth to average close to 
2.5 percent per year, with economic output growing by around 110 percent by 2050 compared to 2021. As 
economies and populations grow, and as living standards improve for billions of people, the need for energy is 
expected to continue to rise. Even with significant efficiency gains, global energy demand is projected to rise by 
almost 15 percent from 2021 to 2050. This increase in energy demand is expected to be driven by developing 
countries (i.e., those that are not member nations of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD)).

As expanding prosperity drives global energy demand higher, increasing use of energy-efficient technologies 
and practices, as well as lower-emission products, will continue to help significantly reduce energy consumption 
and CO2 emissions per unit of economic output over time. Substantial efficiency gains are likely in all key 
aspects of the world’s economy through 2050, affecting energy requirements for power generation, 
transportation, industrial applications, and residential and commercial needs. 

Under the Outlook, global electricity demand is expected to increase over 75 percent from 2021 to 2050, with 
developing countries likely to account for about 80 percent of the increase. Consistent with this projection, 
power generation is expected to remain the largest and fastest growing major segment of global primary energy 
demand, supported by a wide variety of energy sources. The share of coal-fired generation is expected to 
decline substantially and approach 15 percent of the world’s electricity in 2050, versus nearly 35 percent in 
2021, in part due to policies to improve air quality as well as reduce greenhouse gas emissions to address risks 
related to climate change. From 2021 to 2050, the amount of electricity supplied using natural gas, nuclear 
power and renewables is expected to more than double, accounting for the entire growth in electricity supplies 
and offsetting the reduction of coal. Electricity from wind and solar is expected to increase more than 550 
percent, helping total renewables (including other sources, e.g., hydropower) to account for over 80 percent of 
the increase in electricity supplies worldwide through 2050. Total renewables are expected to reach about 50 
percent of global electricity supplies by 2050. Natural gas and nuclear are expected to be about 25 percent and 
10 percent, respectively, of global electricity supplies by 2050. Supplies of electricity by energy type will reflect 
significant differences across regions reflecting a wide range of factors including the cost and availability of 
various energy supplies and policy developments.

6

  
Under the Outlook, energy for transportation – including cars, trucks, ships, trains and airplanes – is expected to 
increase by over 30 percent from 2021 to 2050. Transportation energy demand is expected to account for 
around 65 percent of the growth in liquid fuels demand worldwide over this period. Light-duty vehicle demand 
for liquid fuels is projected to peak by around 2025, and then decline to levels seen in the early-2000s by 2050, 
as the impact of better fuel economy and significant growth in electric cars, led by China, Europe, and the 
United States, work to offset growth in the worldwide car fleet of almost 70 percent. By 2050, light-duty vehicles 
are expected to account for around 15 percent of global liquid fuels demand. During the same time period, 
nearly all the world’s commercial transportation fleets are expected to continue to run on liquid fuels, including 
biofuels, which are expected to be widely available and offer practical advantages in providing a large quantity 
of energy in small volumes.

Almost half of the world’s energy use is dedicated to industrial activity. As the global middle class continues to 
grow, demand for durable products, appliances, and consumable goods will increase. Industry uses energy 
products both as a fuel and as a feedstock for chemicals, asphalt, lubricants, waxes, and other specialty 
products. The Outlook anticipates technology advances, as well as the increasing shift toward cleaner forms of 
energy such as electricity and natural gas, with coal declining. Demand for oil will continue to grow as a 
feedstock for industry.

As populations grow and prosperity rises, more energy will be needed to power homes, offices, schools, 
shopping centers, hospitals, etc. Combined residential and commercial energy demand is projected to rise by 
around 15 percent through 2050. Led by the growing economies of developing nations, average worldwide 
household electricity use will rise about 75 percent between 2021 and 2050.

Liquid fuels provide the largest share of global energy supplies today reflecting broad-based availability, 
affordability, ease of transportation, and fitness as a practical solution to meet a wide variety of needs. By 2050, 
global demand for liquid fuels is projected to grow to approximately 110 million oil-equivalent barrels per day, an 
increase of about 17 percent from 2021. The non-OECD share of global liquid fuels demand is expected to 
increase to nearly 70 percent by 2050, as liquid fuels demand in the OECD is expected to decline by around 20 
percent. Much of the global liquid fuels demand today is met by crude production from conventional sources; 
these supplies will remain important, and significant development activity is expected to offset much of the 
natural declines from these fields. At the same time, a variety of emerging supply sources – including tight oil, 
deepwater, oil sands, natural gas liquids, and biofuels – are expected to grow to help meet rising demand. The 
world’s resource base is sufficient to meet projected demand through 2050 as technology advances continue to 
expand the availability of more economic and lower-carbon supply options. However, timely investments will 
remain critical to meeting global needs with reliable and affordable supplies. 

Natural gas is a lower-emission, versatile and practical fuel for a wide variety of applications, and it is expected 
to grow the most of any primary energy type from 2021 to 2050, meeting about 40 percent of global energy 
demand growth. Global natural gas demand is expected to rise nearly 25 percent from 2021 to 2050, with 
around two thirds of that increase coming from the Asia Pacific region. Significant growth in supplies of 
unconventional gas – the natural gas found in shale and other tight rock formations – will help meet these 
needs. In total, about 50 percent of the growth in natural gas supplies is expected to be from unconventional 
sources. At the same time, conventionally-produced natural gas is likely to remain the cornerstone of global 
supply, meeting around two-thirds of worldwide demand in 2050. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) trade will expand 
significantly, meeting about 50 percent of the increase in global demand growth, with much of this supply 
expected to help meet rising demand in Asia Pacific. 

The world’s energy mix is highly diverse and will remain so through 2050. Oil is expected to remain the largest 
source of energy with its share remaining close to 30 percent in 2050. Coal and natural gas are the next largest 
sources of energy today, with the share of natural gas growing to more than 25 percent by 2050, while the share 
of coal falls to about half that of natural gas. Nuclear power is projected to grow, as many nations are likely to 
expand nuclear capacity to address rising electricity needs as well as energy security and environmental issues. 
Total renewable energy is expected to exceed 20 percent of global energy by 2050, with other renewables (e.g., 
biomass, hydropower, geothermal) contributing a combined share of more than 10 percent. Total energy 
supplied from wind and solar is expected to increase rapidly, growing over 480 percent from 2021 to 2050, 
when they are projected to be around 10 percent of the world energy mix.

7

  
Decarbonization of industry activities will require a suite of nascent or future lower-carbon technologies and 
supporting policies. Lower-emission fuels, hydrogen-based fuels, and carbon capture and storage are three key 
lower-carbon solutions needed to support a lower-emission future, in addition to wind and solar. Along with 
electrification, lower-emission fuels are expected to play an important role in decarbonization of the 
transportation sector, particularly in hard-to-decarbonize areas, such as aviation. Low-carbon hydrogen will be a 
key enabler replacing traditional furnace fuel to decarbonize the industrial sector. Hydrogen and hydrogen-
based fuels like ammonia are also expected to make inroads into commercial transportation as technology 
improves to lower its cost and policy develops to support the needed infrastructure development. Carbon 
capture and storage on its own, or in combination with hydrogen production, is among the few proven 
technologies that could enable CO2 emission reductions from high-emitting and hard-to-decarbonize sectors 
such as power generation and heavy industries, including manufacturing, refining and petrochemicals.

To meet this projected demand under the Outlook and the IEA's Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), the 
company anticipates that the world’s available oil and gas resource base will grow, not only from new 
discoveries, but also from increases in previously discovered fields. Technology will underpin these increases. 
The investments to develop and supply resources to meet global demand through 2050 will be significant, and 
would be needed to meet even the rapidly declining demand for oil and gas envisioned in the IEA's Net Zero 
Emissions by 2050 scenario.

International accords and underlying regional and national regulations covering greenhouse gas emissions 
continue to evolve with uncertain timing and outcome, making it difficult to predict their business impact. 
Imperial’s estimates of potential costs related to greenhouse gas emissions align with applicable provincial and 
federal regulations. Additionally, Imperial uses the Outlook as a foundation for estimating energy supply and 
demand requirements from various energy sources and uses, and the Outlook takes into account policies 
established to reduce energy related greenhouse gas emissions. The climate accord reached at the Conference 
of the Parties (COP 21) in Paris set many new goals, and many related policies are still emerging. The Outlook 
reflects an environment with increasingly stringent climate policies and is consistent with the global aggregation 
of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), submitted by the nations that are signatories to the Paris 
Agreement, as available at the end of 2021. The Outlook seeks to identify potential impacts of climate related 
government policies, which often target specific sectors. As people and nations look for ways to reduce risks of 
global climate change, they will continue to need practical solutions that do not jeopardize the affordability or 
reliability of the energy they need. The company continues to monitor the updates to the NDCs that nations 
provided around COP 27 in Egypt in November 2022 as well as other policy developments in light of net-zero 
ambitions formulated by some nations, including Canada.

The information provided in the Outlook includes ExxonMobil's internal estimates and projections based upon 
internal data and analyses, as well as publicly available information from external sources including the 
International Energy Agency.

Progress reducing emissions
Practical solutions to the world’s energy and climate challenges will benefit from market competition in addition 
to well-informed, well-designed and transparent policy approaches that carefully weigh costs and benefits. Such 
policies are likely to help manage the risks of climate change while also enabling societies to pursue other high 
priority goals around the world – including clean air and water, access to reliable and affordable energy, and 
economic progress for all people. The company encourages sound policy solutions that reduce climate-related 
risks across the economy at the lowest societal cost. All practical and economically viable energy sources will 
need to be pursued to continue meeting global energy demand, recognizing the scale and variety of worldwide 
energy needs, as well as the importance of expanding access to modern energy to promote better standards of 
living for billions of people.

Imperial and its industry peers launched the Oil Sands Pathways to Net Zero alliance in 2021, with the goal of 
working collectively with the federal and Alberta governments to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions 
from oil sands operations by 2050 to help Canada meet its climate goals.

8

As part of the company’s efforts to provide solutions that lower the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of its 
operations and provide lower life-cycle emissions products to customers, Imperial has announced a company-
wide goal to achieve net zero emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 2050 in its operated assets through collaboration 
with government and industry partners. Successful technology development and supportive fiscal and 
regulatory frameworks will be needed to achieve this goal. This work builds on Imperial’s previously announced 
net-zero goal for operated oil sands as part of the Pathways Alliance initiative, as well as the company’s 
emission intensity reduction goal of 30 percent by 2030 for operated oil sands facilities when compared to 2016 
levels. The company plans to achieve its net zero goal by applying oil sands recovery technologies that use less 
steam, implementing carbon capture and storage and implementing efficiency projects including the use of 
lower carbon fuels at its operations.

9

  
Recent business environment
Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, many companies in the industry invested below the levels needed to maintain 
or increase production capacity to meet anticipated demand. During the COVID-19 pandemic, this decline in 
investments accelerated as industry revenue collapsed, resulting in underinvestment and supply tightness as 
demand for petroleum and petrochemical products recovered. Across late 2021 and the first half of 2022, these 
reductions, along with supply chain constraints, and a continuation of demand recovery, led to a steady increase 
in oil and natural gas prices and refining margins.

Demand for petroleum and petrochemical products grew in 2022, with the company's financial results benefiting 
from stronger prices and margins. Commodity and product prices are expected to remain volatile given the 
current global economic uncertainty and geopolitical events affecting supply and demand, including Russia's 
military action in Ukraine that has impacted global crude oil and gas supply levels and prices.

The general rate of inflation in Canada and many other countries experienced a brief decline in the initial stage 
of the COVID-19 pandemic, before starting to increase steadily in 2021, due to an imbalance in supply and 
demand, and continued to increase in 2022. The underlying factors include, but are not limited to, time cycle of 
capacity investments, supply chain disruptions, shipping bottlenecks, labour constraints, and side effects from 
monetary and fiscal expansions. The company closely monitors market trends and works to mitigate both 
operating and capital cost impacts in all price environments.

Business results

Consolidated 

millions of Canadian dollars

Net income (loss) (U.S. GAAP)
Identified items1 included in Net income (loss)

Gain/(loss) on sale of assets

Impairments

Subtotal of identified items1

2022 

7,340 

208 

— 

208 

2021 

2,479 

— 

— 

— 

2020 

(1,857) 

— 

(1,171) 

(1,171) 

Net income (loss) excluding identified items1

7,132 

2,479 

(686) 

2022
Net income in 2022 was $7,340 million, or $11.44 per share on a diluted basis, up from $2,479 million, or $3.48 
per share in 2021. Current year results include favourable identified items1 of $208 million after tax, related to 
the company’s gain on the sale of interests in XTO Energy Canada.

2021 
Net income in 2021 was $2,479 million, or $3.48 per share on a diluted basis, compared to a net loss of $1,857 
million, or $2.53 per share in 2020. Prior year results include unfavourable identified items1 of $1,171 million 
after tax, related to the company’s decision to no longer develop a significant portion of its unconventional 
portfolio.

1 non-GAAP financial measure - see "Frequently used terms" section on page 43 for definition and reconciliation.

10

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Upstream 
Overview
Imperial produces crude oil and natural gas for sale predominantly into North American markets. Imperial’s 
Upstream business strategies guide the company’s exploration, development, production, research and gas 
marketing activities. These strategies include improving asset reliability, accelerating development and 
application of high impact technologies, maximizing value by capturing new business opportunities and 
managing the existing portfolio, as well as pursuing sustainable improvements in organizational efficiency and 
effectiveness. These strategies are underpinned by a relentless focus on operations integrity, commitment to 
innovative technologies, disciplined approach to investing and cost management, development of employees 
and investment in the communities within which the company operates. 

Imperial has a significant oil and gas resource base and a large inventory of potential projects. The company’s 
current investment strategy is to invest for value and select volume growth, with focus on optimization within 
existing assets, cost reduction opportunities and productivity enhancements that aim to deliver robust returns at 
a wide range of prices. The company also continues to evaluate opportunities to support long-term growth. 
Although actual volumes will vary from year to year, the focus is on value-add, long-term growth opportunities 
within the context of the factors described in Item 1A. “Risk factors”. Imperial continually evaluates 
opportunities, including crude shipments by rail and the pace of the development of its Aspen in-situ oil sands 
project, as economically justified.

Prices for most of the company's crude oil sold are referenced to Western Canada Select (WCS) and West 
Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil markets. Additionally, the market price for WCS is typically lower than light and 
medium grades of oil, and price differentials between WCS and WTI can fluctuate. 

Imperial believes prices over the long term will be driven by market supply and demand, with the demand side 
largely being a function of general economic activity, alternative energy sources, levels of prosperity, technology 
advancements, consumer preference and government policies. On the supply side, prices may be significantly 
impacted by political events, logistics constraints, the actions of OPEC, governments, alternative energy 
sources, and other factors. To manage the risks associated with price, Imperial tests the resiliency of its annual 
plans and all major investments across a range of price scenarios. 

Key events 
Upstream assets demonstrated strong performance in 2022. The company continued to benefit from its actions 
implemented in prior years to manage the cost structure and improve the reliability of its assets, enabling the 
Upstream to capture significant value and take advantage of the improving business environment throughout 
2022.

Upstream full-year production averaged 416,000 gross oil-equivalent barrels per day.

At Kearl, gross production was about 242,000 barrels per day (172,000 barrels Imperial’s share), down 21,000 
barrels per day (14,000 barrels Imperial's share) compared to 2021, as a result of extreme cold weather impacts 
in Q1 2022.

At Cold Lake, annual production averaged 144,000 gross oil-equivalent barrels per day.

At Syncrude, annual production averaged 77,000 gross oil-equivalent barrels per day, supported by the 
interconnect pipeline.

On August 31, 2022, jointly with ExxonMobil Canada, Imperial sold its interests in XTO Energy Canada to 
Whitecap Resources Inc.

As described in more detail in Item 1A. “Risk factors”, environmental risks and climate related regulations could 
have negative impacts on the upstream business. 

11

  
Results of operations 
2022 Net income (loss) factor analysis 
millions of Canadian dollars 

Price – Higher realizations were generally in line with increases in marker prices, driven primarily by increased 
demand. Average bitumen realizations increased by $26.76 per barrel generally in line with WCS, and synthetic 
crude oil realizations increased by $43.85 per barrel.

Volumes – Lower volumes were primarily the result of downtime at Kearl in the first half of the year, partly offset 
by higher production at Syncrude and Cold Lake.

Royalty – Higher royalties primarily driven by improved commodity prices.

Identified items1 – Current year results include favourable identified items1 related to the company's gain on the 
sale of interests in XTO Energy Canada.

Other – Higher operating expenses of about $500 million, primarily from higher energy prices, partially offset by 
favourable foreign exchange impacts of about $270 million, and higher electricity sales at Cold Lake of about 
$60 million due to increased prices.

2021 Net income (loss) factor analysis 
millions of Canadian dollars  

Price – Higher realizations were primarily driven by average bitumen realizations increasing by $32.22 per 
barrel generally in line with WCS, and synthetic crude oil realizations increasing by $31.85 per barrel generally 
in line with WTI. 

Volumes – Higher volumes primarily driven by the absence of production balancing with market demands that 
occurred in 2020 increased net income by about $550 million.

Royalty – Higher royalties primarily driven by higher commodity prices.

Identified items1 – Prior year results included unfavourable identified items1 of $1,171 million related to the 
company's decision to no longer develop a significant portion of its unconventional portfolio.

Other – Higher operating expenses of about $720 million, unfavourable foreign exchange impacts of about $230 
million and lower Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy received by the company compared to prior year of about 
$60 million, which includes Imperial's proportionate share of a joint venture.

1 non-GAAP financial measure - see "Frequently used terms" section on page 43 for definition and reconciliation.

12

1,3953,140(80)(970)208(48)3,6452021PriceVolumesRoyaltyIdentified Items¹Other2022(2,318)3,640550(680)1,171(968)1,3952020PriceVolumesRoyaltyIdentified Items¹Other2021 
  
Marker prices and average realizations 

Canadian dollars, unless otherwise noted

West Texas Intermediate (US$) (per barrel)
Western Canada Select (US$) (per barrel)
WTI/WCS Spread (US$) (per barrel)
Bitumen (per barrel)
Synthetic crude oil (per barrel)
Conventional crude oil (per barrel)
Natural gas liquids (per barrel)
Natural gas (per thousand cubic feet)
Average foreign exchange rate (US$)

2022 
94.36 
76.28 
18.08 
84.67 
125.46 
97.45 
64.92 
5.69 
0.77 

2021 
68.05 
54.96 
13.09 
57.91 
81.61 
59.84 
35.87 
3.83 
0.80 

2020 
39.26 
26.87 
12.39 
25.69 
49.76 
29.34 
13.85 
1.90 
0.75 

Crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGL) - production and sales (a)

thousands of barrels per day

         2022

         2021

         2020

Bitumen
Synthetic crude oil (b)
Conventional crude oil
Total crude oil production
NGLs available for sale
Total crude oil and NGL production
Bitumen sales, including diluent (c)
NGL sales (d)

gross
316 
77 
8 
401 
1 
402 
424 
1 

net
263 
63 
8 
334 
1 
335 

gross
326 
71 
10 
407 
1 
408 
451 
— 

net
292 
62 
9 
363 
1 
364 

gross
290 
69 
11 
370 
2 
372 
401 
2 

net
279 
68 
10 
357 
2 
359 

Natural gas - production and production available for sale (a)  

millions of cubic feet per day

Production (e) (f)

Production available for sale (g)

        2022

gross

85 

net

83 

50 

          2021
gross

120 

net

115 

81 

         2020

gross

154 

net

150 

115 

(a) Volume per day metrics are calculated by dividing the volume for the period by the number of calendar days in the period. Gross 
production is the company’s share of production (excluding purchases) before deduction of the mineral owners’ or governments’ 
share or both. 

(b) The company’s synthetic crude oil production volumes were from the company’s share of production volumes in the Syncrude joint 
venture and include immaterial amounts of bitumen and other products exported to the operator's facilities using an existing 
interconnect pipeline.

(c) Diluent is natural gas condensate or other light hydrocarbons added to crude bitumen to facilitate transportation to market by pipeline 

and rail. 

(d) 2021 NGL sales round to 0. 
(e) Gross production of natural gas includes amounts used for internal consumption with the exception of the amounts re-injected.
(f) Net production is gross production less the mineral owners’ or governments’ share or both. Net production reported in the above table 

is consistent with production quantities in the net proved reserves disclosure. 
Includes sales of the company’s share of net production and excludes amounts used for internal consumption. 

(g)

2022
Lower production at Kearl was primarily a result of downtime in the first half of the year.

2021 
Higher production at Kearl was primarily driven by the absence of prior year production balancing with market
demands.

13

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Downstream 
Overview
Imperial’s Downstream serves predominantly Canadian markets with refining, trading, logistics and marketing 
activities. Imperial’s Downstream business strategies competitively position the company across a range of 
market conditions. These strategies include targeting industry-leading performance in reliability, safety and 
operations integrity, as well as maximizing value from advanced technologies, capitalizing on integration across 
Imperial’s businesses, selectively investing for resilient and advantaged returns, operating efficiently and 
effectively, and providing quality, valued and differentiated products and services to customers. 

Imperial owns and operates three refineries in Canada with aggregate distillation capacity of 433,000 barrels 
per day. Refining margins are largely driven by differences in commodity prices and are a function of the 
difference between what a refinery pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the 
range of products produced (primarily gasoline, heating oil, diesel oil, jet fuel, fuel oil and asphalt). Crude oil and 
many products are widely traded with published prices, including those quoted on the New York Mercantile 
Exchange. Prices for these commodities are determined by the global and regional marketplaces and are 
influenced by many factors, including global and regional supply / demand balances, inventory levels, industry 
refinery operations, import / export balances, currency fluctuations, seasonal demand, weather and political 
considerations. While industry refining margins significantly impact earnings, strong operations performance, 
product mix optimization, and disciplined cost control are also critical to the company's strong financial 
performance. Imperial's integration across the value chain, from refining to marketing, enhances overall value 
across the fuels business.

Key events
Refining margins increased sharply in 2022 in the face of strengthening demand, low inventory levels, and 
supply uncertainty. While refining margins are anticipated to remain volatile in the near term, the company 
continues to closely monitor industry and global economic conditions. 

The company progressed the Strathcona renewable diesel project in 2022, culminating in a final investment 
decision in January 2023 to construct the largest such facility in Canada, designed to produce more than one 
billion litres of renewable diesel annually.

As described in more detail in Item 1A. “Risk factors”, proposed carbon policy and other climate related 
regulations, as well as continued biofuels mandates, could have negative impacts on the downstream business. 

Imperial supplies petroleum products through Esso and Mobil-branded sites and independent marketers. At the 
end of 2022, there were about 2,400 sites operating under a branded wholesaler model, in alignment with Esso 
and Mobil brand standards, whereby Imperial supplies fuel to independent third parties. 

Results of operations 
2022 Net income (loss) factor analysis
millions of Canadian dollars 

Margins – Higher margins primarily reflect improved market conditions.

Other – Lower turnaround impacts of about $140 million, reflecting the absence of turnaround activities at 
Strathcona refinery, improved volumes of about $130 million, favourable foreign exchange impacts of about 
$120 million, and absence of the prior year unfavourable out-of-period inventory adjustment of $74 million, 
partially offset by higher operating expenses of about $190 million.

14

8952,3503773,6222021MarginsOther2022  
2021 Net income (loss) factor analysis
millions of Canadian dollars

Margins – Higher margins reflect improved product demand.

Other – Unfavourable foreign exchange impacts of about $150 million and an unfavourable inventory 
adjustment of $74 million1, partially offset by lower operating expenses of about $50 million.

Refinery utilization

thousands of barrels per day (a)

Total refinery throughput (b)

Rated capacity at December 31 (c)

Utilization of total refinery capacity (percent)

2022 

418 

433 

98 

2021 

379 

428 

89 

2020 

340 

428 

80 

(a) Volume per day metrics are calculated by dividing the volume for the period by the number of calendar days in the period. 
(b) Refinery throughput is the volume of crude oil and feedstocks that is processed in the refinery atmospheric distillation units. 
(c) Rated capacities are based on definite specifications as to types of crude oil and feedstocks that are processed in the refinery 

atmospheric distillation units, the products to be obtained and the refinery process, adjusted to include an estimated allowance for 
normal maintenance shutdowns. Accordingly, actual capacities may be higher or lower than rated capacities due to changes in 
refinery operation and the type of crude oil available for processing. 

 2022 
Improved refinery throughput in 2022 was primarily driven by increased demand and reduced turnaround 
activity.

2021 
Improved refinery throughput in 2021 primarily reflects reduced impacts associated with the COVID-19 
pandemic, partially offset by a planned turnaround at Strathcona.

Petroleum product sales

thousands of barrels per day (a)

Gasolines

Heating, diesel and jet fuels

Lube oils and other products

Heavy fuel oils

Net petroleum product sales

2022 

2021 

2020 

229 

176 

47 

23 

475 

224 

160 

45 

27 

456 

215 

146 

40 

20 

421 

(a) Volume per day metrics are calculated by dividing the volume for the period by the number of calendar days in the period.

2022 
Improved petroleum product sales in 2022 primarily reflects increased demand.

2021
Improved petroleum product sales in 2021 primarily reflects reduced impacts associated with the COVID-19 
pandemic.

1 In 2021, the company recorded an unfavourable $74 million ($82 million, before tax) inventory adjustment (including the proportionate 
share of LIFO changes) related to reconciliations of additives and products inventory at equity and third-party terminals. The out-of-period 
impact of $57 million ($63 million, before tax) occurred over a number of years, and has been resolved.

15

553600(258)8952020MarginsOther2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Chemical 
Overview
North America continued to benefit from abundant supplies of natural gas and gas liquids, providing both low 
cost energy and feedstock for steam crackers. 

Key events
In 2022, margins were adversely impacted by increased domestic supply of polyethylene.

Imperial maintains a competitive advantage through continued operational excellence, consistent product 
quality, investment and cost discipline, and integration of its chemical plant in Sarnia with the refinery. The 
company also benefits from its relationship with ExxonMobil’s North American chemical businesses, enabling 
Imperial to maintain a leadership position in its key market segments. 

Results of operations 
2022 Net income (loss) factor analysis
millions of Canadian dollars 

Margins – Lower margins primarily reflect weaker industry polyethylene margins.

2021 Net income (loss) factor analysis
millions of Canadian dollars 

Margins – Improved margins were primarily due to stronger industry polyethylene margins.

Sales 

thousands of tonnes

Polymers and basic chemicals

Intermediates

Total petrochemical sales

Corporate and other 

millions of Canadian dollars

Net income (loss)

2022 

635 

207 

842 

2021 

599 

232 

831 

2020 

574 

175 

749 

2022 

(131)   

2021 

(172)   

2020 

(170) 

16

361(110)(47)2042021MarginsOther202278250333612020MarginsOther2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Liquidity and capital resources

Sources and uses of cash
The company issues long-term debt from time to time and maintains a commercial paper program. However, 
internally generated funds cover the majority of its financial requirements. Cash that may be temporarily surplus 
to the company’s immediate needs is carefully managed through counterparty quality and investment guidelines 
to ensure that it is secure and readily available to meet the company’s cash requirements and to optimize 
returns. 

Cash flows from operating activities are highly dependent on crude oil and natural gas prices, as well as 
petroleum and chemical product margins. In addition, to provide for cash flow in future periods, the company 
needs to continually find and develop new resources, and continue to develop and apply new technologies to 
existing fields in order to maintain or increase production. 

The company’s financial strength enables it to make large, long-term capital expenditures. Imperial’s portfolio of 
development opportunities and the complementary nature of its business segments help mitigate the overall 
risks for the company and its cash flows. Further, due to its financial strength, debt capacity and portfolio of 
opportunities, the risk associated with delay of any single project would not have a significant impact on the 
company’s liquidity or ability to generate sufficient cash flows for its operations and fixed commitments. 

Funding of registered retirement plans complies with federal and provincial pension regulations, and the 
company makes contributions to the plans based on an independent actuarial valuation completed at least once 
every three years depending on funding status. The most recent valuation of the company’s registered 
retirement plans was completed as at December 31, 2019. A valuation of the company’s registered retirement 
plans as at December 31, 2022 is expected to be completed in 2023. The company contributed $174 million to 
the registered retirement plans in 2022. Future funding requirements are not expected to affect the company’s 
existing capital investment plans or its ability to pursue new investment opportunities. 

millions of Canadian dollars

Cash provided by (used in)

Operating activities

Investing activities

Financing activities

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

2022 

2021 

2020 

10,482 

(618)   

(8,268)   

1,596 

5,476 

(1,012)   

(3,082)   

1,382 

798 

(802) 

(943) 

(947) 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

3,749 

2,153 

771 

Cash flow from operating activities 

2022 
Cash flow generated from operating activities primarily reflects higher Upstream realizations, improved 
Downstream margins, and favourable working capital impacts.

2021
Cash flow generated from operating activities primarily reflects higher Upstream realizations and stronger 
Downstream margins.

Cash flow used in investing activities 

2022 
Cash flow used in investing activities primarily reflects higher additions to property, plant and equipment, which 
were partially offset by proceeds from the sale of interests in XTO Energy Canada.

2021
Cash flow used in investing activities primarily reflects higher additions to property, plant and equipment.

17

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Cash flow used in financing activities 

2022 
At the end of 2022, total debt outstanding was $4,155 million, compared with $5,176 million at the end of 2021.

During the third quarter of 2022, the company decreased its long-term debt by $1 billion by partially repaying an 
existing facility with an affiliated company of ExxonMobil.

During the second quarter of 2022, the company reduced its existing $500 million committed long-term line of 
credit to $250 million and extended the maturity date to June 30, 2023. Subsequently in the fourth quarter of 
2022, this committed long-term line of credit was cancelled in full. The company also extended one of its $250 
million committed long-term lines of credit to June 30, 2024.

In November 2022, the company extended the maturity date of an existing $250 million committed short-term 
line of credit to November 2023.

The company has not drawn on any of its outstanding $500 million of available credit facilities. 

2021
At the end of 2021, total debt outstanding was $5,176 million, compared with $5,184 million at the end of 2020.

During the second quarter of 2021, the company extended the maturity date of two of its short-term lines of 
credit, totalling $750 million, to May 2023, these facilities are now long-term. The company also extended its 
$300 million committed short-term line of credit to June 2022.

In November 2021, the company extended the maturity date of an existing $250 million committed short-term 
line of credit to November 2022. 

The company has not drawn on these facilities.

Share repurchases

millions of Canadian dollars, unless noted

Share repurchases

Number of shares purchased (millions) (a)

2022 

6,395 

93.9 

2021 

2,245 

56.0 

2020 

274 

9.8 

(a) Share repurchases were made under the company’s normal course issuer bid program, and substantial issuer bids that commenced 

on May 6, 2022 and November 4, 2022, and expired on June 10, 2022 and December 9, 2022, respectively. Includes shares 
purchased from Exxon Mobil Corporation concurrent with, but outside of, the normal course issuer bid, and by way of a proportionate 
tender under the company’s substantial issuer bids.

2022
On June 27, 2022, the company announced that it had received final approval from the Toronto Stock Exchange 
for a new normal course issuer bid. The program enabled the company to purchase up to a maximum of 
31,833,809 common shares during the period June 29, 2022 to June 28, 2023. The program completed on 
October 21, 2022 as a result of the company purchasing the maximum allowable number of shares under the 
program.

On May 6, 2022, the company commenced a substantial issuer bid pursuant to which it offered to purchase for 
cancellation up to $2.5 billion of its common shares through a modified Dutch auction and proportionate tender 
offer. The substantial issuer bid was completed on June 15, 2022, with the company taking up and paying for 
32,467,532 common shares at a price of $77.00 per share, for an aggregate purchase of $2.5 billion and        
4.9 percent of Imperial’s issued and outstanding shares at the close of business on May 2, 2022. This included 
22,597,379 shares purchased from Exxon Mobil Corporation by way of a proportionate tender to maintain its 
ownership percentage at approximately 69.6 percent. 

18

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
On November 4, 2022, the company commenced a substantial issuer bid pursuant to which it offered to 
purchase for cancellation up to $1.5 billion of its common shares through a modified Dutch auction and 
proportionate tender offer. The substantial issuer bid was completed on December 14, 2022, with the company 
taking up and paying for 20,689,655 common shares at a price of $72.50 per share, for an aggregate purchase 
of $1.5 billion and 3.4 percent of Imperial's issued and outstanding shares at the close of business on 
October 31, 2022. This included 14,399,985 shares purchased from Exxon Mobil Corporation by way of a 
proportionate tender to maintain its ownership percentage at approximately 69.6 percent.

2021
On April 30, 2021, the company announced an amendment to its normal course issuer bid to increase the 
number of common shares that were available to be purchased. Under the amendment, the number of common 
shares available for purchase increased to a maximum of 29,363,070 common shares during the period June 
29, 2020 to June 28, 2021. In 2021, the company purchased 29,356,095 shares under this amended program. 

On June 23, 2021, the company announced that it received final approval from the Toronto Stock Exchange for 
a new normal course issuer bid to continue its existing share purchase program. The program enabled the 
company to purchase up to a maximum of 35,583,671 common shares during the period June 29, 2021 to June 
28, 2022. In accordance with the company’s announcement in November 2021 that it intended to accelerate 
purchases under the normal course issuer bid, the program was subsequently completed on January 31, 2022 
as a result of the company purchasing the maximum allowable number of shares under the program.

Dividends 

millions of Canadian dollars, unless noted

Dividends paid

Per share dividend paid (dollars)

Financial strength 

2022 

851 

1.29 

2021 

706 

0.98 

2020 

649 

0.88 

The table below shows Imperial’s consolidated debt-to-capital ratio. The data demonstrates the company’s 
creditworthiness: 

 percent

 At December 31

Debt to capital (a)

2022 

 16 

2021 

 19 

2020 

 19 

(a) Debt, defined as the sum of “Notes and loans payable” and “Long-term debt” (page 76), divided by capital, defined as the sum of debt

 and “Total shareholders’ equity” (page 76). 

Debt-related interest incurred in 2022, before capitalization of interest, was $111 million, up from $63 million in 
2021. The weighted-average interest rate on the company’s debt was 2.2 percent in 2022, up from 1.2 percent 
in 2021. 

The company’s financial strength represents a competitive advantage of strategic importance providing it the 
opportunity to readily access capital markets across a range of market conditions and enables the company to 
take on large, long-term capital commitments in the pursuit of maximizing shareholder value. 

Contractual obligations 
The company has contractual obligations involving commitments to third parties that impact its liquidity and 
capital resource needs. These contractual obligations are primarily for leases, debt, asset retirement 
obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits, other long-term obligations, and firm capital 
commitments. Further information on this topic can be found in notes 4, 5, 13 and 14 to the consolidated 
financial statements. 

Other long-term purchase agreements are commitments that are non-cancelable, or cancelable only under 
certain conditions, as well as long-term commitments, other than unconditional purchase obligations. They 
include primarily transportation services agreements, raw material supply and community benefits agreements. 
The total obligation at year-end 2022 was $8.8 billion, of which $783 million is due in 2023, and $670 million is 
due in 2024.

19

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Litigation and other contingencies 
As discussed in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 97, a variety of claims have been made 
against Imperial and its subsidiaries. Based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, the 
company does not believe the ultimate outcome of any currently pending lawsuits against the company will 
have a material adverse effect on the company’s operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken 
as a whole. 

Additionally, as discussed in note 9, Imperial was contingently liable at December 31, 2022, for guarantees 
relating to performance under contracts. These guarantees do not have a material effect on the company’s 
operations, financial condition, or financial statements taken as a whole. 

There are no events or uncertainties beyond those already included in reported financial information that would 
indicate a material change in future operating results or financial condition. 

Capital and exploration expenditures

Capital and exploration expenditures represent the combined total of additions at cost to property, plant and 
equipment, additions to finance leases, additional investments and acquisitions; exploration expenses on a 
before-tax basis from the Consolidated statement of income; and the company’s share of similar costs for equity 
companies. Capital and exploration expenditures exclude the purchase of carbon emission credits. While 
Imperial’s management is responsible for all investments and elements of net income, particular focus is placed 
on managing the controllable aspects of this group of expenditures. 

 millions of Canadian dollars

Upstream (a)

Downstream

Chemical

Corporate and other

Total

(a) Exploration expenses included.

2022 

1,128 

295 

10 

57 

1,490 

2021 

632 

476 

8 

24 

1,140 

For the Upstream segment, capital and exploration expenditures were primarily related to sustaining activity in 
support of the company’s in-situ and oil sands assets. 

For the Downstream segment, capital expenditures were primarily for enhancing the company’s distribution 
network as well as refinery projects to improve environmental performance, reliability, feedstock flexibility, and 
energy efficiency. 

Total capital and exploration expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.7 billion in 2023. 

Expected capital and exploration expenditures for 2023 includes firm capital commitments of $407 million for the 
construction and purchase of fixed assets and other permanent investments. An additional $211 million of firm 
capital commitments have been made for years 2024 and beyond. 

Actual spending could vary depending on the progress of individual projects.

20

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Market risks

Crude oil, natural gas, petroleum product and chemical prices have fluctuated in response to changing market 
forces. The impacts of these price fluctuations on earnings from Upstream, Downstream and Chemical 
operations have varied. 

Imperial’s earnings are influenced by North American crude oil benchmark prices as well as changes in the 
differentials between these benchmarks and western Canadian prices for light and heavy crude oil. Imperial’s 
integrated business model reduces the company’s risk from changes in commodity prices. For instance, when 
differentials between North American crude benchmarks and western Canadian prices widen, Imperial is able to 
mitigate the impact of widening differentials on the Upstream through integration with Downstream investments 
in refineries, pipeline commitments and the Edmonton rail terminal.

In the competitive downstream and chemical environments, earnings are primarily determined by margin 
capture rather than absolute price levels on products sold. Refining margins are a function of the difference 
between what a refiner pays for its raw materials (primarily crude oil) and the market prices for the range of 
products produced. These prices, in turn, depend on global and regional supply / demand balances, inventory 
levels, refinery operations, import / export balances and weather. 

Industry crude oil commodity prices and petroleum and chemical product prices are commonly benchmarked in 
U.S. dollars. The majority of Imperial’s sales and purchases are related to these industry U.S. dollar 
benchmarks. As the company records and reports its financial results in Canadian dollars, to the extent that the 
Canadian / U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates, the company’s earnings will be affected. 

Imperial is exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on its debt which carries floating interest rates. The 
impact of a quarter percent change in interest rates affecting Imperial’s debt would not be material to earnings 
or cash flow. Imperial has access to significant sources of long-term and short-term liquidity. Internally 
generated funds are expected to cover the majority of financial requirements, supplemented by long-term and 
short-term debt as needed. 

The company’s potential exposure to commodity price and margin, and Canadian / U.S. dollar exchange rate 
fluctuations is summarized in the earnings sensitivities table, which shows the estimated annual effect, under 
current conditions, on the company’s after-tax net income. For any given period, the extent of actual benefit or 
detriment will be dependent on the price movements of individual types of crude oil and products, production 
and sales volumes, transportation capacity, costs and egress methods, and other factors. Accordingly, changes 
in benchmark prices for crude oil and crude oil differentials, and other factors listed in the table following, only 
provide broad indicators of changes in the earnings experienced in any particular period. 

Earnings sensitivities (a) 

millions of Canadian dollars, after-tax

One dollar (U.S.) per barrel increase (decrease) in crude oil prices

One dollar (U.S.) per barrel increase (decrease) in refining 2-1-1 margins (b)

One cent decrease (increase) in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar

+ (-)

+ (-)

+ (-)

105 

140 

170 

(a) Each sensitivity calculation shows the annual impact on net income resulting from a change in one factor, after tax and royalties, and 
holding all other factors constant. These sensitivities have been updated to reflect current market conditions. They may not apply 
proportionately to larger fluctuations.

(b) The 2-1-1 crack spread is an indicator of the refining margin generated by converting two barrels of crude oil into one barrel of 

gasoline and one barrel of diesel. 

The demand for crude oil, petroleum products and petrochemical products are generally linked closely with 
economic growth. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of low or negative economic growth will 
typically have a direct adverse impact on the company’s financial results. Although price levels of crude oil may 
rise and fall significantly over the short to medium-term due to global economic conditions, political events, 
decisions by OPEC, governments and other factors, industry economics over the long-term will continue to be 
driven by market supply and demand. The company evaluates investments over a range of prices, including 
estimated greenhouse gas emission costs. 

21

 
 
 
  
The global energy markets can give rise to extended periods in which market conditions are adverse to one or 
more of the company’s businesses. Such conditions, along with the capital-intensive nature of the industry and 
very long lead times associated with many of the company’s projects, underscore the importance of maintaining 
a strong financial position. Management views the company’s financial strength as a competitive advantage. 

In general, segment results are not dependent on the ability to sell and / or purchase products to / from other 
segments. Where such intersegment sales take place, they are the result of efficiencies and competitive 
advantages from integrated business segments and refinery and chemical complexes. The company’s 
intersegment sales include crude oil produced by the Upstream and sold to the Downstream, as well as sales 
between refineries and the chemical plant related to raw materials, feedstocks and finished products. All 
intersegment sales are at market based prices. Refer to note 2 for additional information on intersegment 
revenue. 

The company has an active asset management program in which nonstrategic assets are considered for 
divestment. The asset management program includes a disciplined, regular review to ensure that assets are 
contributing to the company’s strategic objectives. 

Risk management 
The company’s size, strong capital structure and the complementary nature of its business segments reduces 
the company’s enterprise-wide risk from changes in commodity prices and currency exchange rates. In addition, 
the company may use commodity-based contracts, including derivatives, to manage commodity price risk and 
to generate returns from trading. The company’s derivatives are not accounted for under hedge accounting. 
Credit risk associated with the company’s derivative position is mitigated by several factors, including the use of 
derivative clearing exchanges and the quality of and financial limits placed on derivative counterparties. No 
material market or credit risks to the company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity exist as a 
result of the derivatives described in note 6 on page 94. The company maintains a system of controls that 
includes the authorization, reporting and monitoring of derivative activity. 

22

 
  
Critical accounting estimates

The company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP). U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities. The company’s accounting and financial reporting fairly reflect its business model involving 
exploration for, and production of, crude oil and natural gas; manufacture, trade, transport and sale of crude oil, 
natural gas, petroleum products, petrochemicals and a variety of specialty products; and pursuit of lower-
emission business opportunities, including carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and lower-emission fuels. 
Imperial does not use financing structures for the purpose of altering accounting outcomes or removing debt 
from the balance sheet. The company’s significant accounting policies are summarized in note 1 to the 
consolidated financial statements on page 79. 

Oil and natural gas reserves 
Evaluations of oil and natural gas reserves are important to the effective management of upstream assets. They 
are an integral part of investment decisions about oil and gas properties such as whether development should 
proceed. 

The estimation of proved reserve volumes, which is based on the requirement of reasonable certainty, is an 
ongoing process based on rigorous technical evaluations, commercial and market assessments, detailed 
analysis of well information such as flow rates and reservoir pressures, and development and production costs, 
and other factors. The estimation of proved reserves is controlled by the company through long-standing 
approval guidelines. Reserves changes are made within a well-established, disciplined process driven by 
qualified geoscience and engineering professionals, assisted by the reserves management group which has 
significant technical experience, culminating in reviews with and approval by senior management and the 
company’s board of directors. Notably, the company does not use specific quantitative reserves targets to 
determine compensation. Key features of the reserves estimation process are covered in “Disclosure of 
reserves” in Item 1. 

Oil and natural gas reserves include both proved and unproved reserves. 

•

Proved oil and natural gas reserves are determined in accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) requirements. Proved reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas which, by 
analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be 
economically producible under existing economic and operating conditions and government regulations. 
Proved reserves are determined using the average of first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas prices 
during the reporting year. 

Proved reserves can be further subdivided into developed and undeveloped reserves. Proved 
developed reserves include amounts which are expected to be recovered through existing wells, 
facilities, or mining activities with existing equipment and operating methods. Proved undeveloped 
reserves include amounts expected to be recovered from new wells, existing wells, facilities, or mining 
activities, where a relatively major capital expenditure is required. Proved undeveloped reserves are 
recognized when a development plan has been adopted indicating that the reserves are scheduled to 
be developed within five years, unless specific circumstances support a longer period of time. 

The company is reasonably certain that proved reserves will be produced. However, the timing and 
amount recovered can be affected by a number of factors including completion and optimization of 
development projects, reservoir performance, regulatory approvals, government policies, consumer 
preferences, royalty frameworks and significant changes in oil and natural gas price levels. 

•

Unproved reserves are quantities of oil and natural gas with less than reasonable certainty of 
recoverability and include probable reserves. Probable reserves are reserves that, together with proved 
reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. 

Revisions in previously estimated volumes of proved reserves for existing fields can occur due to the evaluation 
or re-evaluation of already available geologic, reservoir or production data; new geologic, reservoir or 
production data; or changes in the average of first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas prices and / or costs 
that are used in the estimation of reserves. Revisions can also result from significant changes in either 
development strategy or production equipment and facility capacity. 

23

 
  
In 2020, downward revisions of proved bitumen reserves were a result of low prices. The 2.2 billion barrels of 
bitumen at Kearl and 0.6 billion barrels of bitumen at Cold Lake no longer qualified as proved reserves under 
the SEC definition of proved reserves. Downward revisions to proved synthetic crude oil reserves were a result 
of lower prices, offset by the addition of proved undeveloped reserves associated with future development at 
Syncrude. Changes to the liquids and natural gas proved reserves were the result of updated development 
plans at the Montney and Duvernay unconventional assets and the divestment of conventional properties. 

In 2021, upward revisions of proved bitumen reserves were a result of improved prices. The 1.7 billion barrels of 
bitumen at Kearl and 0.5 billion barrels of bitumen at Cold Lake qualified as proved reserves under the SEC 
definition of proved reserves. Upward revisions to proved synthetic crude oil reserves were a result of improved 
prices. Changes to the liquids and natural gas proved reserves were the result of updated development plans 
and divestments at the Montney and Duvernay unconventional assets. 

In 2022, downward revisions of proved bitumen reserves were driven by a decrease of 0.2 billion barrels at 
Kearl as a result of higher royalty obligations associated with pricing, and a decrease of 0.2 billion barrels at 
Cold Lake due to an updated development plan. An increase to the bitumen reserves of 0.1 billion barrels is 
associated with extensions at Cold Lake for the Grand Rapids Phase 1 SA-SAGD and Leming SAGD projects. 
Downward revisions to proved synthetic crude oil reserves were a result of mine development plan updates and 
higher royalty obligations at Syncrude associated with pricing. Changes to the liquids and natural gas proved 
reserves were primarily a result of the sale of the company’s interest in the Montney and Duvernay 
unconventional assets.

Under the terms of certain contractual arrangements or government royalty regimes, lower prices can also 
increase proved reserves attributable to Imperial. The company’s operating decisions and its outlook for future 
production volumes are not impacted by proved reserves as disclosed under the SEC definition. 

Unit-of-production depreciation 
Oil and natural gas reserve volumes are used as the basis to calculate unit-of-production depreciation rates for 
most upstream assets. Depreciation is calculated by taking the ratio of asset cost to total proved reserves or 
proved developed reserves applied to actual production. The volumes produced and asset cost are known, 
while proved reserves are based on estimates that are subject to some variability. 

In the event that the unit-of-production method does not result in an equitable allocation of cost over the 
economic life of an upstream asset, an alternative method is used. The straight-line method is used in limited 
situations where the expected life of the asset does not reasonably correlate with that of the underlying 
reserves. For example, certain assets used in the production of oil and natural gas have a shorter life than the 
reserves, and as such, the company uses straight-line depreciation to ensure the asset is fully depreciated by 
the end of its useful life. 

To the extent that proved reserves for a property are substantially de-booked and that property continues to 
produce such that the resulting depreciation charge does not result in an equitable allocation of cost over the 
expected life, assets will be depreciated using a unit-of-production method based on reserves determined at the 
most recent SEC price which results in a more meaningful quantity of proved reserves, appropriately adjusted 
for production and technical changes. This approach was applied in 2021, with the corresponding effect on 
depreciation expense being immaterial compared to prior periods. For 2022 and 2023, all properties have 
sufficient reserves at current SEC prices which will enable equitable allocation of cost over the economic lives of 
the Upstream assets. 

Impact of oil and gas reserves and prices and margins on testing for impairment 
The company tests assets or groups of assets for recoverability on an ongoing basis whenever events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The company has a 
robust process to monitor for indicators of potential impairment across its asset groups throughout the year. This 
process is aligned with the requirements of ASC 360 and ASC 932 and relies, in part, on the company’s 
planning and budgeting cycle. 

24

  
Because the lifespans of the vast majority of the company’s major assets are measured in decades, the future 
cash flows of these assets are predominantly based on long-term oil and natural gas commodity prices, industry 
margins, and development and production costs. Significant reductions in the company’s view of oil or natural 
gas commodity prices or margin ranges, especially the longer-term prices and margins, and changes in the 
development plans, including decisions to defer, reduce or eliminate planned capital spending, can be an 
indicator of potential impairment. Other events or changes in circumstances, including indicators outlined in 
ASC 360 can be indicators of potential impairment as well. 

In general, Imperial does not view temporarily low prices or margins as an indication of impairment. 
Management believes that prices over the long term must be sufficient to generate investments in energy 
supply to meet global demand. Although prices will occasionally drop significantly, industry prices over the long 
term will continue to be driven by market supply and demand fundamentals. On the supply side, industry 
production from mature fields is declining. This is being offset by investments to generate production from new 
discoveries, field developments, and technology and efficiency advancements. OPEC investment activities and 
production policies also have an impact on world oil supplies. The demand side is largely a function of general 
economic activities, alternative energy sources and levels of prosperity. During the lifespan of its major assets, 
the company expects that oil and gas prices and industry margins will experience significant volatility. 
Consequently, these assets will experience periods of higher earnings and periods of lower earnings, or even 
losses. In assessing whether events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may 
not be recoverable, the company considers recent periods of operating losses in the context of its longer-term 
view of prices and margins.

Outlook for Energy and cash flow assessment 
The annual planning and budgeting process, known as the company plan, is the mechanism by which 
resources (capital, operating expenses and people) are allocated across the company. The foundation for the 
energy supply and demand assumptions supporting the company plan begins with the Outlook, which contains 
demand and supply projections based on its assessment of current trends in technology, government policies, 
consumer preferences, geopolitics, economic development, and other factors. 

Reflective of the existing global policy environment, the Outlook does not attempt to project the degree of 
required future policy and technology advancement and deployment for the world or the company, to meet net 
zero by 2050. As future policies and technology advancements emerge, they will be incorporated into the 
Outlook, and consequently, the company’s business plans will be updated accordingly. 

If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable, the 
company estimates the future undiscounted cash flows of the affected properties to judge the recoverability of 
carrying amounts. In performing this assessment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are 
identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets. Cash flows used 
in recoverability assessments are based on the assumptions developed in the company plan, which is reviewed 
and approved by the board of directors, and are consistent with the criteria management uses to evaluate 
investment opportunities. These evaluations make use of the company’s assumptions of future capital 
allocations, crude oil and natural gas commodity prices including price differentials, refining and chemical 
margins, volumes, development and operating costs, including greenhouse gas emissions prices, and foreign 
currency exchange rates. Volumes are based on projected field and facility production profiles, throughput, or 
sales. Management’s estimate of upstream production volumes used for projected cash flows makes use of 
proved reserve quantities and may include risk-adjusted unproved reserve quantities. The greenhouse gas 
emission prices reflect existing or anticipated policy actions of applicable provincial and federal governments. 
While third-party scenarios, such as the International Energy Agency Net Zero Emissions by 2050, may be used 
to test the resiliency of company’s businesses or strategies, they are not used as a basis for developing future 
cash flows for impairment assessments. 

Fair value of impaired assets 
An asset group is impaired if its estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the asset group’s 
carrying value. Impairments are measured by the excess of the carrying value over fair value. The assessment 
of fair value is based on the views of a likely market participant. The principal parameters used to establish fair 
value include estimates of acreage values and flowing production metrics from comparable market transactions, 
market-based estimates of historical cash flow multiples, and discounted cash flows. Inputs and assumptions 
used in discounted cash flow models include estimates of future production volumes, throughput and product 
sales volumes, commodity prices which are consistent with the average of third-party industry experts and 
government agencies, refining and chemical margins, drilling and development costs, operating costs, and 
discount rates which are reflective of the characteristics of the asset group. 

25

  
Other impairment estimates 
Unproved properties are assessed periodically to determine whether they have been impaired. Significant 
unproved properties are assessed for impairment individually, and valuation allowances against the capitalized 
costs are recorded based on the company’s future development plans, the estimated economic chance of 
success and the length of time that the company expects to hold the properties. Properties that are not 
individually significant are aggregated by groups and amortized based on development risk and average 
holding period. 

Long-lived assets that are held for sale are evaluated for possible impairment by comparing the carrying value 
of the asset with its fair value less the cost to sell. If the net book value exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, 
the assets are considered impaired and adjusted to the lower value. Judgment is required to determine if assets 
are held for sale, and to determine the fair value less cost to sell. 

Investments accounted for by the equity method are assessed for possible impairment when events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable. Examples of key 
indicators include a history of operating losses, negative earnings and cash flow outlook, significant downward 
revisions to oil and gas reserves, and the financial condition and prospects for the investee’s business segment 
or geographic region. If the decline in value of the investment is other than temporary, the carrying value of the 
investment is written down to fair value. In the absence of market prices for the investment, discounted cash 
flows are used to assess fair value, which requires significant judgment. 

Recent impairments 
In 2020, the company announced its decision to not further develop a significant portion of its unconventional 
portfolio in Alberta, resulting in a non-cash, after-tax impairment charge of $1,171 million in the company’s 2020 
Upstream results. 

Factors which could put further assets at risk of impairment in the future include reductions in the company’s 
price or margin outlooks, changes in the allocation of capital or development plans, reduced long-term demand 
for the company’s products and operating cost increases which exceed the pace of efficiencies or the pace of oil 
and natural gas price increases or margins. However, due to the inherent difficulty in predicting future 
commodity prices or margins, and the relationship between industry prices and costs, it is not practicable to 
reasonably estimate the existence or range of any potential future impairment charges related to the company’s 
long-lived assets. 

Supplemental information regarding oil and gas results of operations, capitalized costs and reserves is provided 
following the notes to consolidated financial statements. 

Pension benefits 
The company’s pension plan is managed in compliance with the requirements of governmental authorities and 
meets funding levels as determined by independent third-party actuaries. Pension accounting requires explicit 
assumptions regarding, among others, the discount rate for the benefit obligations, the expected rate of return 
on plan assets and the long-term rate of future compensation increases. All pension assumptions are reviewed 
annually by senior management. These assumptions are adjusted only as appropriate to reflect long-term 
changes in market rates and outlook. The long-term expected rate of return on plan assets of 4.3 percent used 
in 2022 compares to actual returns of 5.6 percent and 6.5 percent achieved over the last 10- and 20-year 
periods respectively, ending December 31, 2022. If different assumptions are used, the obligation and expense 
could increase or decrease as a result. As an indication of the company’s potential exposure to changes in the 
critical assumptions such as the expected rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate for measuring the 
pension plan benefits obligation, a reduction of 1 percent in the discount rate would increase the benefits 
obligation by approximately $1 billion. Similarly, a reduction of 1 percent in the long-term rate of return on plan 
assets would increase the annual pension expense by approximately $95 million before tax. At Imperial, 
differences between actual returns on plan assets and the long-term expected returns are not recorded in 
pension expense in the year the differences occur. Such differences are deferred, along with other actuarial 
gains and losses, and are amortized into pension expense over the expected average remaining service life of 
employees. Employee benefits expense represented about 1 percent of total expenses in 2022. 

26

  
Asset retirement obligations 
The company is subject to retirement obligations for certain assets. The fair values of these obligations are 
recorded as liabilities on a discounted basis, which is typically at the time the assets are installed. In the 
estimation of fair value, the company uses assumptions and judgments regarding such factors as the existence 
of a legal obligation for an asset retirement obligation; technical assessments of the assets; estimated amounts 
and timing of settlements; discount rates; and inflation rates. On page 93, note 5 to the consolidated financial 
statements provides a three-year continuity table detailing the changes in asset retirement obligations.

Suspended exploratory well costs 
The company continues capitalization of exploratory well costs when it has found a sufficient quantity of 
reserves to justify its completion as a producing well and the company is making sufficient progress assessing 
the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project. Exploratory well costs not meeting these 
criteria are charged to expense. Assessing whether the company is making sufficient progress on a project 
requires careful consideration of the facts and circumstances. The facts and circumstances that support 
continued capitalization of suspended wells at year-end are disclosed in note 15 to the consolidated financial 
statements on page 104. 

Tax contingencies 
The operations of the company are complex, and related tax interpretations, regulations and legislation are 
continually changing.

The benefits of uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take in its income tax returns 
are recognized in the financial statements if management concludes that it is more likely than not that the 
position will be sustained with the tax authorities. For a position that is likely to be sustained, the benefit 
recognized in the financial statements is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of 
being realized. Significant management judgment is required in the accounting for income tax contingencies 
and tax disputes because the outcomes are often difficult to predict. The company’s unrecognized tax benefits 
and a description of open tax years are summarized in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.

27