# Lightspeed Commerce Inc.
# 来源：Annual MD&A - English.pdf (e0b5cef9b60f2234)

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

As used in this management’s discussion and analysis ("MD&A"), unless the context indicates or requires otherwise, all 
references to the "Company", "Lightspeed", "we", "us" or "our" refer to Lightspeed Commerce Inc. together with our subsidiaries, 
on a consolidated basis as constituted on March 31, 2023.

This MD&A dated May 18, 2023, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 and the years ended March 31, 2023 
("Fiscal 2023") and 2022 ("Fiscal 2022"), should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial 
statements and the notes related thereto for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, included elsewhere in this annual report. 
The financial information presented in this MD&A is derived from the Company’s audited annual consolidated financial 
statements for Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2022, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards ("IFRS") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). All amounts are in U.S. dollars except 
where otherwise indicated.

We have prepared this MD&A with reference to National Instrument 51-102 "Continuous Disclosure Obligations" of the 
Canadian Securities Administrators. Under the U.S./Canada Multijurisdictional Disclosure System, we are permitted to prepare 
this MD&A in accordance with Canadian disclosure requirements, which requirements are different than those of the United 
States.

Additional information relating to Lightspeed, including our most recently completed Annual Information Form and our Annual 
Report on Form 40-F for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, is available on our website at investors.lightspeedhq.com and can 
be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov.

Forward-looking Information

This MD&A contains "forward-looking information" and "forward-looking statements" (collectively, "forward-looking 
information") within the meaning of applicable securities laws. Forward-looking information may relate to our financial outlook 
and anticipated events or results and may include information regarding our financial position, business strategy, growth 
strategies, addressable markets, budgets, operations, financial results, taxes, dividend policy, plans and objectives. Particularly, 
information regarding our expectations of future results, performance, achievements, prospects or opportunities or the markets in 
which we operate; macroeconomic conditions such as increasing inflationary pressures, interest rates, instability in the banking 
sector and global economic uncertainty; our expectations regarding the costs, timing and impact of our cost reduction initiatives; 
events such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic (the "COVID-19 Pandemic") and the Russian invasion of Ukraine; and 
expectations regarding industry and consumer spending trends, our growth rates, the achievement of advances in and expansion of 
our platform, our revenue and the revenue generation potential of our payment-related and other solutions, the impact of our 
decision to sell our POS and payments solutions as one unified platform, our gross margins and future profitability, acquisition 
outcomes and synergies, the impact of legal proceedings, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations, 
our business plans and strategies and our competitive position in our industry is forward-looking information. 

In some cases, forward-looking information can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "plans", 
"targets", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected", "an opportunity exists", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "outlook", 
"forecasts", "projection", "prospects", "strategy", "intends", "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", "believes", or variations of such 
words and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might", "will", "will be taken", 
"occur" or "be achieved", the negative of these terms and similar terminology. In addition, any statements that refer to 
expectations, intentions, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances contain forward-looking 
information. Statements containing forward-looking information are not historical facts but instead represent management’s 
expectations, estimates and projections regarding future events or circumstances. 

This forward-looking information and other forward-looking information are based on our opinions, estimates and assumptions in 
light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other 
factors that we currently believe are appropriate and reasonable in the circumstances as at the date of the forward-looking 
information. Despite a careful process to prepare and review the forward-looking information, there can be no assurance that the 
underlying opinions, estimates and assumptions will prove to be correct. Certain assumptions made in respect of our ability to 
build our market share and enter new markets and industry verticals; our ability to attract, develop and retain key personnel; our 
ability to manage hardware component shortages and supply chain risk and the impact of shortages in the supply chain on our 
customers; our ability to maintain and expand geographic scope; our ability to execute on our expansion plans; our ability to 
execute on our cost reduction initiatives; our ability to continue investing in infrastructure and implement scalable controls, 

(1)

systems and processes to support our growth; our ability to prevent and manage information security breaches or other cyber-
security threats; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the risk of claims by third parties of intellectual property 
infringement; the impact of class actions and other litigation claims; the pricing of our offerings; our ability to successfully sell 
our POS and payments solutions as one unified platform to both new and existing customers; our ability to successfully integrate 
the companies we have acquired and to derive the benefits we expect from the acquisition thereof; our ability to obtain and 
maintain existing financing on acceptable terms; currency exchange and interest rates, including inflation; seasonality in our 
business and in the business of our customers; the impact of competition; the changes and trends in our industry or the global 
economy, including changes in consumer spending; goodwill impairments and the possibility of future impairments; and the 
changes in laws, rules, regulations, and global standards are material factors in preparing forward-looking information and 
management’s expectations.

Forward-looking information is necessarily based on a number of opinions, estimates and assumptions that we considered 
appropriate and reasonable as of the date such statements are made, is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, 
assumptions and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially 
different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information, including but not limited to the factors described 
in the "Summary of Factors Affecting our Performance" section of this MD&A, in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual 
Information Form dated May 18, 2023, and in our other filings with the Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which are available under our profiles on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on 
EDGAR at www.sec.gov.

If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if the opinions, estimates or assumptions underlying the forward-looking 
information prove incorrect, actual results or future events might vary materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking 
information. The opinions, estimates or assumptions referred to above and described in greater detail in this MD&A should be 
considered carefully by prospective investors. 

Although we have attempted to identify important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
contained in forward-looking information, there may be other risk factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe 
are not material that could also cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-
looking information. There can be no assurance that such information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events 
could differ materially from those anticipated in such information. No forward-looking information is a guarantee of future 
results. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information, which speaks only as of the date made. 
The forward-looking information contained in this MD&A represents our expectations as of the date hereof or as of the date it is 
otherwise stated to be made, as applicable, and is subject to change after such date. However, we disclaim any intention or 
obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking information whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise, except as required under applicable securities laws.

All of the forward-looking information contained in this MD&A is expressly qualified by the foregoing 
cautionary statements.

This MD&A includes certain trademarks, including "Lightspeed", "Flame Design", "NuORDER" and other trademarks, which are 
protected under applicable intellectual property laws and are our property. Solely for convenience, our trademarks referred to in 
this MD&A may appear without the ® or ™ symbol, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not 
assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights to these trademarks.

Additional information relating to Lightspeed, including our most recently completed Annual Information Form, can be found on 
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and EDGAR at www.sec.gov.

Overview

Lightspeed offers a cloud-based commerce platform that connects suppliers, merchants and consumers while enabling omni-
channel experiences. Our software platform provides our customers with the critical functionality they need to engage with 
consumers, manage their operations, accept payments, and grow their businesses. We serve customers globally, empowering 
single- and multi-location retailers, restaurants, golf course operators and other companies to compete successfully in an omni-
channel market environment by engaging with consumers across online, mobile, social, and physical channels. We primarily 
target small and medium-sized businesses ("SMBs") with our easy to use and cost efficient solutions. The majority of our revenue 
is recurring or reoccurring and we have a track-record of growing revenue per customer over time. 

(2)

Our cloud platform is designed around three interrelated elements: omni-channel consumer experience, a comprehensive back-
office operations management suite to improve our customers’ efficiency and insight, and the facilitation of payments. Key 
functionalities of our platform include full omni-channel capabilities, point of sale ("POS"), product and menu management, 
employee and inventory management (including ordering), analytics and reporting, multi-location connectivity, order-ahead and 
curbside pickup functionality, loyalty, customer management and tailored financial solutions such as Lightspeed Payments and 
Lightspeed Capital. By delivering our solutions through the cloud, we enable merchants to reduce dependency on the brick and 
mortar channel and interact with customers anywhere (in store, online, mobile and social), gain a deeper understanding of their 
customers and operations by tracking activity and key metrics across all channels, and update inventory, run analytics, change 
menus, send promotions and otherwise manage their business operations from any location.

Our flagship solutions include Lightspeed Restaurant, a unified hospitality commerce offering, and Lightspeed Retail, a 
groundbreaking retail commerce offering that unites advanced POS, payments, and eCommerce into one cohesive and powerful 
solution. In addition, Lightspeed eCommerce allows merchants to enhance omnichannel reach and increase selling flexibility, 
including through social media platforms and digital marketplaces. Our new flagship solutions are seeing strong reception from 
customers globally. NuORDER by Lightspeed, once fully integrated, will provide customers with greater supplier access and 
inventory visibility, automate manual ordering, consolidate supplier portals into the POS, streamline omni-channel operations by 
making it easy to import product details and photos into the POS, and ensure use of supplier approved brand names and images. 
Going deep into verticals will also create opportunities for us to monetize our data up and down the supply chain. In Fiscal 2023, 
we announced the initial launch of Lightspeed B2B, our B2B offering, to several key North American verticals: fashion, outdoor, 
bikes and sporting goods. We believe our continued investment in Lightspeed B2B represents an opportunity for us to distinguish 
ourselves from competitors. 

Being the commerce platform puts us in a prime position for payment processing and allows us to collect transaction-related data 
insights. After excluding Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, our payments solutions 
are now available to the majority of our Customer Locations. Our transaction-based revenue was $399.6 million for Fiscal 2023, 
an increase of 51% from the $264.0 million in transaction-based revenue for Fiscal 2022. This was primarily driven by increased 
customer adoption of our payments solutions resulting in an increase of 81% in GPV1 compared to Fiscal 2022. As of the 
beginning of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2024 ("Fiscal 2024"), we are now selling our POS and payments solutions together 
as one unified offering. We believe embedded payments results in the best experience for customers by improving consistency 
and reliability, streamlining support and billing, and enhancing opportunities for them to avail themselves of innovative product 
functionality. We are helping our customers by offering free hardware and implementation, helping with contract buy-outs and 
offering competitive rates. As a result of this initiative, we will require our eligible new and existing customers to adopt our 
payments solutions. We believe processing additional GTV for new and existing customers through our payments solutions will 
help advance our growth strategies and enable us to reduce complexity in our business. In addition, this initiative will help reduce 
the costs of supporting a variety of third party payment processors.

Our platform is built to scale with our customers, supporting them as they open new locations, and offering increasingly 
sophisticated solutions as their business requirements become more complex. Our platform helps SMBs avoid having to piece 
together multiple, and often disjointed, applications from various providers to leverage the technology they need to run and grow 
their businesses. Our ecosystem of development, channel and installation partners further reinforces the scalability of our 
solutions, making them customizable and extensible. We work alongside our customers through their business journey by 
providing industry-leading onboarding and support services, and fundamentally believe that our success is directly connected to 
their success.

To further complement our core cloud solutions, we offer a merchant cash advance program called Lightspeed Capital. This 
program provides cash advances to eligible merchants and is designed to help them with overall business growth and cash 
management. Merchants use these cash advances to manage their cash flows, to buy inventory, and to invest in marketing, 
amongst other things.

We sell our solutions primarily through our direct sales force in North America, Europe, the UK, Australia and New Zealand, 
supplemented by indirect channels in other countries around the world. Our platform is well-suited for various types of SMBs, 
particularly single- and multi-location retailers with complex operations, such as those with a high product count, diverse 
inventory needs or a service component, golf course operators and hospitality customers.

1  Refer to the section entitled "Key Performance Indicators".

(3)

Excluding the impact of Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, which Customer 
Locations carry a lower ARPU1, the monthly ARPU of our Customer Locations was approximately $335 per Customer Location 
as at March 31, 2023 as compared to approximately $270 per Customer Location as at March 31, 2022. 

As at March 31, 2023, excluding Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, we had 
approximately 168,000 Customer Locations1 in over 100 countries. While our total number of Customer Locations experienced 
more gradual growth in Fiscal 2023 than in prior years, the number of our Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year2 
continued to increase. We remain focused on attracting the right customer profile, particularly Customer Locations with a higher 
GTV and more complex needs, merchants which we believe are ideally suited for our industry-leading solutions. For Fiscal 2023, 
GPV was $14.7 billion compared to $8.1 billion for Fiscal 2022, representing growth of 81%. For Fiscal 2023, our cloud-based 
software-as-a-service platform processed GTV of $87.1 billion, which represents growth of 18% relative to $74.0 billion of GTV 
processed during Fiscal 2022, despite many retail verticals exhibiting lower average year-over-year GTV. For the three months 
ended March 31, 2023 compared to three months ended March 31, 2022, our cloud-based software-as-a-service platform 
processed GPV of $3.8 billion compared to $2.2 billion, representing growth of 70% and GTV1 of $20.2 billion compared to 
$18.4 billion, representing growth of 10%, which is an indication of our success in penetrating our customer base with our 
payments solutions. 

For Fiscal 2023 compared to Fiscal 2022, our omni-channel retail GTV growth was 14% and our hospitality GTV growth was 
22% (3% and 20%, respectively for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to three months ended March 31, 2022). 
After excluding the impact of any acquisitions that occurred since the end of the prior comparable period so as to provide a 
consistent basis of comparison, organic GTV growth for Fiscal 2023 compared to Fiscal 2022 was 16%, which growth was driven 
by a 9% increase in GTV from omni-channel retail customers and an increase in hospitality GTV of 22% (10%, 3% and 20%, 
respectively for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to three months ended March 31, 2022). In Fiscal 2023, we 
observed many retail verticals exhibiting lower year-over-year GTV, likely owing to challenging economic conditions and 
reduction in consumer spending. For greater clarity, where an acquisition occurred part way through the prior comparable period, 
such acquisition's contributions in the current period are included for purposes of calculating organic GTV only to the extent of 
the same months they were included in the prior comparable period. All growth for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was 
organic as no acquisitions had occurred since the end of the prior comparable period.

Excluding Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, our approximately 168,000 Customer 
Locations as at March 31, 2023 are located approximately 51% in North America and 49% across the rest of the world and the 
split of these Customer Locations between retail and hospitality represents approximately 62% and 38% of our total Customer 
Locations, respectively. Despite the Ecwid acquisition adding a significant number of lower ARPU Customer Locations to our 
overall customer base, our attention continues to be focused on serving the complex SMBs, particularly high GTV customers, to 
which our solutions are particularly well-suited and we believe that leveraging Ecwid's platform as our flagship eCommerce 
offering will enable these businesses to enhance their omnichannel reach and increase their selling flexibility.

We believe we have a distinct leadership position in SMB commerce given our scale, breadth of capabilities, and diversity of 
customers. We generate revenue primarily from the sale of cloud-based software subscriptions and our payments solutions. We 
offer pricing plans designed to meet the needs of our current and prospective customers that enable Lightspeed solutions to scale 
with SMBs as they grow. Our subscription plans vary from monthly plans to one-year and multi-year terms. We have also 
integrated our software with various third party payment processors who pay us a revenue share of the payment processing 
revenue for customers we refer to them. These arrangements generally predate the availability of our payments solutions in the 
various markets we serve.

Our total revenue has increased to $730.5 million for Fiscal 2023 from $548.4 million for Fiscal 2022, representing year-over-
year growth of 33%. For Fiscal 2023, subscription revenue accounted for 41% of our total revenues (45% for Fiscal 2022), and 
transaction-based revenue accounted for 55% of our total revenues (48% for Fiscal 2022). Despite the impact of challenges and 
uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, for Fiscal 2023, we had an annual net retention rate1 of approximately 110%.

After excluding the impact of any acquisitions that occurred since the end of the prior comparable period so as to provide a 
consistent basis of comparison, organic subscription and transaction-based revenue growth for Fiscal 2023 compared to Fiscal 
2022 was 31% (28% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022). For 
greater clarity, where an acquisition occurred part way through the prior comparable period, such acquisition's contributions in the 

2 Excluding Customer Locations and GTV attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, Lightspeed Golf and 
NuORDER by Lightspeed product. A Customer Location's GTV per year is calculated by annualizing the GTV for the months in 
which the Customer Location is actively processing in the last twelve months.

(4)

current period are included for purposes of calculating organic subscription and transaction-based revenue growth only to the 
extent of the same months they were included in the prior comparable period. All growth for the three months ended March 31, 
2023 was organic as no acquisitions had occurred since the end of the prior comparable period. 

In addition, we offer a variety of hardware and other services to provide value-added support to our merchants and supplement 
our subscription and transaction-based revenue solutions. These revenues are generally one-time revenues associated with the sale 
of hardware with which our solutions integrate and the sale of professional services in support of the installation and 
implementation of our solutions. For Fiscal 2023, this revenue accounted for 4% of our total revenue (7% for Fiscal 2022).

We plan to continue making deliberate investments to drive future growth. We believe that our future success depends on a 
number of factors, including our ability to expand our market share, build on the successes of our payments and tailored financial 
solutions, add more solutions to our platform, expand our presence within verticals, and our ability to selectively pursue and to 
integrate value-enhancing acquisitions.

During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we announced a reorganization to streamline the Company's operating model 
while continuing to focus on disciplined growth. This new structure represents the next deliberate step to integrate all of our 
acquired companies and products now that we have successfully launched our flagship products in both retail and hospitality. The 
reorganization included the reduction of approximately 300 roles. We plan to continue to hire core go-to-market and development 
roles that support disciplined growth.

We believe that we have significant opportunity to continue to expand ARPU given the number of customers adopting more  
Lightspeed products over time and that our continued investments will increase our revenue base, improve the retention of this 
base and strengthen our ability to increase sales to our customers. We have not been profitable to date. If we are unable to 
successfully implement our growth strategies and cost reduction initiatives, we may not be able to achieve profitability. For Fiscal 
2023 and Fiscal 2022, we incurred an operating loss of $1,099.0 million and $318.3 million, respectively. The operating loss for 
Fiscal 2023 increased primarily due to a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $748.7 million. Our cash flows used in 
operating activities for Fiscal 2023 were $125.3 million, and our Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities3 were $96.0 
million compared to $87.2 million and $61.3 million, respectively, for Fiscal 2022. 

Sustainability

Sustainability is embedded in our guiding principles, and we are working towards a sustainable future and a greener economy. As 
part of this commitment, we have taken steps to help our customers' reduce their carbon footprint. We partner with Sustainably 
Run on a Carbon Free Dining program. The partnership gives our customers' diners the ability to offset the carbon emissions 
associated with their purchase by planting trees and provides our customers with sustainable credits towards purchasing 
Lightspeed products. The program has resulted in the planting of over 1.3 million trees. In addition to offsetting carbon emissions, 
these trees provide food, income and education for the communities sponsored to plant the trees. We also partner with TravelPerk 
to offset carbon emissions for our business travel by airplane, automobile, and train. We choose to partner with companies that are 
also environmentally conscientious. Most of our solutions are powered by Amazon Web Services ("AWS") and Google Cloud 
platforms. Google Cloud is 100% powered by renewable energy and AWS has committed to powering its operations with 100% 
renewable energy by 2025.

Lightspeed is also a place of diversity, equity and inclusion, and it has been since our Executive Chair Dax Dasilva founded the 
Company in Montreal’s Gay Village in 2005. The first four Lightspeed employees were all from the LGBTQ2S+ community and, 
based on the 2023 annual DEI engagement survey, 10% of our employees identify as LGBTQ2S+. Our commitment to a diverse 
and inclusive workplace can be seen at all levels of our Company, including our Employee-led Networks for women, LGBTQ2S+ 
community members and BIPOC community members. Furthermore, the board of directors has committed to a target of at least 
37.5% of women in its membership and is actively recruiting new members with this goal in mind. We believe in creating value 
across our ecosystem, including by ensuring meaningful wealth creation opportunities for all employees. All permanent 
employees are granted an equity stake in the Company upon hire, ensuring employees’ interests are aligned with those of our 
shareholders.

Macroeconomic Conditions including COVID-19

There continues to be uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, including with respect to increasing inflationary pressures, 
changes in consumer spending, instability in the banking sector, exchange rate fluctuations and increases of interest rates as well 

3Refer to the section entitled "Non-IFRS Measures and Ratios and Reconciliation of Non-IFRS Measures and Ratios".

(5)

as with respect to the duration and magnitude of the COVID-19 Pandemic and the ability to control resurgences and new variants 
worldwide. This macroeconomic uncertainty makes it difficult to assess the future impact these events and conditions will have on 
our customer base, the end markets we serve and the resulting effect on our business and operations, both in the short term and in 
the long term. 

Despite these ongoing risks and uncertainties, we continue to believe there is an accelerated need for our solutions in the retail and 
hospitality industries as SMBs look to augment traditional in-person selling models with online and digital strategies, operate with 
fewer employees to manage labor shortages by automating time-consuming tasks, and find new efficiencies and insights into their 
business. A large portion of our market is currently served by legacy on-premise systems that are expensive, complicated, 
outdated, and poorly equipped to help SMBs adapt to this immediate need. This represents a significant opportunity for us to 
continue to fuel adoption of our solutions. We believe our growth, despite a challenging macroeconomic environment, is an 
ongoing indicator of this continued shift to cloud-based solutions. Lightspeed believes it is well-positioned to capitalize on this 
opportunity and will continue to leverage its privileged position at the point of sale to also seize our payments opportunity.

Seizing our payments opportunity means monetizing a larger portion of our customers’ GTV, which for Fiscal 2023 was $87.1 
billion up 18% from the $74.0 billion we processed in Fiscal 2022. We expect changes in consumer spending or other 
macroeconomic conditions in the various geographies in which we operate to continue to cause variability in our GTV; however, 
we believe our diversity in customer verticals and geographies we serve will continue to be a strong asset of the business. 

Additionally, the Russian invasion of Ukraine has created and is expected to continue to create further global economic 
uncertainty. We do not have any significant operations, customers or supplier relationships in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine, and 
have ceased our selling activities to new customers in Russia and Belarus. All of our intellectual property and customer data is 
located outside of the region. We do have personnel in Russia who were brought on via our acquisition of Ecwid, and as part of 
our business continuity plans have relocated many outside of Russia to mitigate any reliance on the region. The United States 
State Department has issued a warning that one of the potential escalations that may result in connection with the war in Ukraine 
and in response to the increased sanctions announced by many countries against Russia, could be an increased risk of cyber-
security attacks to the networks and operations of companies operating from countries that have participated in sanctions against 
Russia. We take that concern very seriously and have increased our own efforts to monitor our networks and information 
technology infrastructure for any signs of such attacks. We will continue to monitor the situation closely, but to date we have not 
experienced any disruptions in our business operations as a result thereof.

We continue to monitor the impact of macroeconomic events and conditions on our business, financial condition and operations, 
as further discussed below. Refer to the section of this MD&A entitled "Summary of Factors Affecting Our Performance", to the 
"Risk Factors" section of our most recent Annual Information Form, and to our other filings with Canadian securities regulatory 
authorities and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which can be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on 
EDGAR at www.sec.gov, for a discussion about the risks with which we are faced. 

Key Performance Indicators

We monitor the following key performance indicators to help us evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends 
affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. These key performance indicators are also used to 
provide investors with supplemental measures of our operating performance and thus highlight trends in our core business that 
may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on IFRS measures and ratios. We also believe that securities analysts, 
investors and other interested parties frequently use industry metrics in the evaluation of issuers. Our key performance indicators 
may be calculated in a manner different than similar key performance indicators used by other companies.

Average Revenue Per User. "Average Revenue Per User" or "ARPU" represents the total subscription revenue and 
transaction-based revenue of the Company in the period divided by the number of Customer Locations of the Company in 
the period. We use this measure as we believe it provides a helpful supplemental indicator of our progress in growing the 
revenue that we derive from our customer base. When excluding Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce 
standalone product, which Customer Locations carry a lower ARPU, the monthly ARPU of our Customer Locations 
increased by 24% to approximately $335 per Customer Location as at March 31, 2023 compared to approximately $270 
per Customer Location as at March 31, 2022. When including Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce 
standalone product, our customers generated monthly ARPU of approximately $145 per Customer Location as at 
March 31, 2022 and approximately $181 as at March 31, 2023. For greater clarity, the number of Customer Locations of 
the Company in the period is calculated by taking the average number of Customer Locations throughout the period.

(6)

Customer Locations. "Customer Location" means a billing merchant location for which the term of services have not 
ended, or with which we are negotiating a renewal contract, and, in the case of NuORDER, a brand with a direct or indirect 
paid subscription for which the terms of services have not ended or in respect of which we are negotiating a subscription 
renewal. A single unique customer can have multiple Customer Locations including physical and eCommerce sites and in 
the case of NuORDER, multiple subscriptions. We use this measure as we believe that our ability to increase the number of 
Customer Locations with a high GTV per year served by our platform is an indicator of our success in terms of market 
penetration and growth of our business. A Customer Location's GTV per year is calculated by annualizing the GTV for the 
months in which the Customer Location was actively processing in the last twelve months. During the three months ended 
March 31, 2023, the number of our Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year continued to increase. Excluding 
Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, our Customer Locations were approximately 
168,000 as at March 31, 2023 compared to approximately 163,000 as at March 31, 2022. Customer Locations attributable 
to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product were approximately 158,000 as at March 31, 2023, compared to 
approximately 160,000 as at March 31, 2022. 

Gross Payment Volume. "Gross Payment Volume" or "GPV" means the total dollar value of transactions processed, 
excluding amounts processed through the NuORDER solution, in the period through our payments solutions in respect of 
which we act as the principal in the arrangement with the customer, net of refunds, inclusive of shipping and handling, duty 
and value-added taxes. We use this measure as we believe that growth in our GPV demonstrates the extent to which we 
have scaled our payments solutions. As the number of Customer Locations using our payments solutions grows, 
particularly those with a high GTV, we will generate more GPV and see higher transaction-based revenue. For the three 
months ended March 31, 2023, GPV was $3.8 billion compared to $2.2 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2022, 
representing growth of 70%. For Fiscal 2023, GPV was $14.7 billion compared to $8.1 billion for Fiscal 2022, representing 
growth of 81%. We have excluded amounts processed through the NuORDER solution from our GPV because they 
represent business-to-business volume rather than business-to-consumer volume and we do not currently have a robust 
payments solution for business-to-business volume. 

Gross Transaction Volume. "Gross Transaction Volume" or "GTV" means the total dollar value of transactions 
processed through our cloud-based software-as-a-service platform, excluding amounts processed through the NuORDER 
solution, in the period, net of refunds, inclusive of shipping and handling, duty and value-added taxes. We use this measure 
as we believe GTV is an indicator of the success of our customers and the strength of our platform. GTV does not represent 
revenue earned by us. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, GTV was $20.2 billion compared to $18.4 billion for 
the three months ended March 31, 2022, representing growth of 10%. In the three months ended March 31, 2023, we 
observed lower year-over-year GTV in many retail verticals likely owing to challenging economic conditions and reduction 
in customer spending. For Fiscal 2023, GTV was $87.1 billion compared to $74.0 billion for Fiscal 2022, representing 
growth of 18%. We have excluded amounts processed through the NuORDER solution from our GTV because they 
represent business-to-business volume rather than business-to-consumer volume and we do not currently have a robust 
payments solution for business-to-business volume.

Net Retention Rate. "Net Retention Rate" or "NRR". We use this measure as we believe that our ability to retain and 
expand the revenues generated from our existing customers is an indicator of the long-term value of our customer 
relationships. We track our performance in this area by measuring our NRR, which is calculated by firstly identifying a 
cohort of customers, or the "Base Customers", in a particular month, or the "Base Month". Billings include billings of 
subscriptions fees and billings of fees from our payments solutions in respect of which we act as the principal in the 
arrangement with the customer. We then divide the Billings for the Base Customers in the same month of the subsequent 
year, or the "Comparison Month", by the Billings in the Base Month to derive a monthly NRR. This by definition, does not 
include any customers added to our platform between the Base Month and the Comparison Month. We measure the annual 
NRR by taking a weighted average of the monthly NRR over the trailing twelve months. NRR excludes customers 
attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product. Despite the impact of challenges and uncertainty in the 
macroeconomic environment, for Fiscal 2023, we had an annual NRR of approximately 110%. In previous fiscal years, we 
have disclosed a net dollar retention rate which was calculated as of the end of each month by considering the cohort of 
customers on our commerce platforms as of the beginning of the month and dividing our subscription and transaction-
based revenues attributable to this cohort in the then-current month by total subscription and transaction-based revenue 
attributable to this cohort in the immediately preceding month. Net Retention Rate is a different measure than net dollar 
retention rate. We believe that Net Retention Rate more clearly demonstrates whether we are successful in retaining and 
expanding revenue generated from our existing customers than net dollar retention rate because the longer intervening 
period between the months compared in calculating Net Retention Rate is more statistically significant and controls for 
factors such as seasonality.

(7)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-IFRS Measures and Ratios and Reconciliation of Non-IFRS Measures and Ratios

The information presented within this MD&A includes certain non-IFRS financial measures such as "Adjusted EBITDA", 
"Adjusted Income (Loss)", and "Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities" and the non-IFRS ratio "Adjusted Income 
(Loss) per Share - Basic and Diluted". These measures and ratios are not recognized measures and ratios under IFRS and do not 
have a standardized meaning prescribed by IFRS and are therefore unlikely to be comparable to similar measures and ratios 
presented by other companies. Rather, these measures and ratios are provided as additional information to complement those 
IFRS measures and ratios by providing further understanding of our results of operations from management’s perspective. 
Accordingly, these measures and ratios should not be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for analysis of our financial 
information reported under IFRS. These non-IFRS measures and ratios are used to provide investors with supplemental measures 
and ratios of our operating performance and thus highlight trends in our core business that may not otherwise be apparent when 
relying solely on IFRS measures and ratios. We also believe that securities analysts, investors and other interested parties 
frequently use non-IFRS measures and ratios in the evaluation of issuers. Our management also uses non-IFRS measures and 
ratios in order to facilitate operating performance comparisons from period to period, to prepare annual operating budgets and 
forecasts and to determine components of management compensation.

Adjusted EBITDA

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net loss excluding interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, as adjusted for 
share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, compensation expenses relating to acquisitions completed, foreign exchange 
gains and losses, transaction-related costs, restructuring, litigation provisions and goodwill impairment. We believe that Adjusted 
EBITDA provides a useful supplemental measure of the Company’s operating performance, as it helps illustrate underlying trends 
in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that are not indicative of the core 
operating performance of our business. The following table reconciles net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated:

(In thousands of US dollars)

Net loss
Share-based compensation and related payroll taxes(1)
Depreciation and amortization(2)
Foreign exchange loss (gain)(3)
Net interest income(2)
Acquisition-related compensation(4)
Transaction-related costs(5)
Restructuring(6)
Goodwill impairment(7)
Litigation provisions(8)
Income tax expense (recovery)

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

2022
$

2023
$

2022
$

(74,468) 
15,967 
28,380 
297 
(9,654) 
5,746 
2,323 
25,549 
— 
229 
1,283 

(114,517) 
41,625 
29,972 
29 
(1,014) 
20,433 
872 
606 
— 
576 
1,679 

 (1,070,009) 
123,667 
115,261 
(199) 
(24,812) 
41,792 
5,834 
28,683 
748,712 
1,409 
(4,219) 

(288,433) 
109,066 
104,548 
611 
(2,988) 
50,491 
9,653 
803 
— 
1,655 
(26,921) 

Adjusted EBITDA

(4,348) 

(19,739) 

(33,881) 

(41,515) 

(1)

(2)

(3)

These expenses represent non-cash expenditures recognized in connection with issued stock options and other awards under our 
equity incentive plans to our employees and directors, and cash related payroll taxes given that they are directly attributable to 
share-based compensation; they can include estimates and are therefore subject to change. For the three months and fiscal year 
ended March 31, 2023, excluding $5,637 of share-based compensation expense acceleration that was classified as restructuring, 
share-based compensation expense was $15,685 and $123,530, respectively (March 2022 - expense of $41,934 and $108,916), and 
related payroll taxes were an expense of $282 and $137, respectively (March 2022 - recovery of $309 and an expense of $150). 
These amounts are included in direct cost of revenues, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses and 
sales and marketing expenses (see note 8 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details). These 
expenses exclude share-based compensation classified as restructuring, which has been included in the restructuring expense.

In connection with the accounting standard IFRS 16 - Leases, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, net loss includes 
depreciation of $2,025 related to right-of-use assets, interest expense of $278 on lease liabilities, and excludes an amount of $2,322 
relating to rent expense ($2,032, $288, and $2,111, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2022). For Fiscal 2023, net 
loss includes depreciation of $8,244 related to right-of-use assets, interest expense of $1,075 on lease liabilities, and excludes an 
amount of $8,712 relating to rent expense ($7,743, $1,204, and $8,133, respectively, for Fiscal 2022).

These non-cash gains and losses relate to foreign exchange translation. 

(8)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4)

(5)

These costs represent a portion of the consideration paid to acquired businesses that is contingent upon the ongoing employment 
obligations for certain key personnel of such acquired businesses, and/or on certain performance criteria being achieved.

These expenses relate to professional, legal, consulting, accounting, advisory, and other fees relating to our public offerings and 
acquisitions that would otherwise not have been incurred. These costs are included in general and administrative expenses and sales 
and marketing expenses.

(6) Certain functions and the associated management structure were reorganized to realize synergies and ensure organizational agility. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we announced a reorganization to streamline the Company's operating model while 
continuing to focus on disciplined growth. The expenses associated with this reorganization were recorded as a restructuring charge 
(see note 24 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details).

(7)

(8)

This amount represents a non-cash goodwill impairment charge (see note 16 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements 
for additional details).

These amounts represent provisions taken and other costs, such as legal fees, incurred in respect of certain litigation matters, net of 
amounts covered by insurance and indemnifications. These amounts do not include provisions taken and other costs incurred in 
respect of litigation matters of a nature that we consider normal to our business. These amounts are included in general and 
administrative expenses.

Adjusted Loss and Adjusted Loss per Share - Basic and Diluted
Adjusted Loss is defined as net loss excluding amortization of intangibles, as adjusted for share-based compensation and related 
payroll taxes, compensation expenses relating to acquisitions completed, transaction-related costs, restructuring, litigation 
provisions, deferred income taxes and goodwill impairment. We use this measure as we believe excluding amortization of 
intangibles and certain other non-cash or non-operational expenditures provides a helpful supplementary indicator of our business 
performance as it allows for more accurate comparability across periods. Adjusted Loss per Share - Basic and Diluted is defined 
as Adjusted Loss divided by the weighted average number of common shares (basic and diluted). We use Adjusted Loss per Share 
- Basic and Diluted to provide a helpful supplemental indicator of the performance of our business on a per share (basic and 
diluted) basis. The following table reconciles net loss to Adjusted Loss for the periods indicated:

(In thousands of US dollars, except number of shares and per 
share amounts)

Net loss
Share-based compensation and related payroll taxes(1)
Amortization of intangible assets
Acquisition-related compensation(2)
Transaction-related costs(3)
Restructuring(4)
Goodwill impairment(5)
Litigation provisions(6)
Deferred income tax expense (recovery)

Adjusted Loss

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

(74,468)   
15,967 
24,620 
5,746 
2,323 
25,549 
— 
229 
(368)   

2022
$

2023
$

(114,517)   
41,625 
26,151 
20,433 
872 
606 
— 
576 
1,397 

(1,070,009)   
123,667 
101,546 
41,792 
5,834 
28,683 
748,712 
1,409 
(6,688)   

2022
$

(288,433) 
109,066 
91,812 
50,491 
9,653 
803 
— 
1,655 
(28,024) 

(402)   

(22,857)   

(25,054)   

(52,977) 

Weighted average number of Common Shares – basic 
and diluted(7)

 151,774,467 

 148,473,309 

 150,404,130 

 141,580,917 

Net loss per share – basic and diluted
Adjusted Loss per Share – Basic and Diluted

(0.49)   

(0.00)

(0.77)   

(0.15)   

(7.11)   

(0.17)   

(2.04) 

(0.37) 

(1)

(2)

These expenses represent non-cash expenditures recognized in connection with issued stock options and other awards under our 
equity incentive plans to our employees and directors, and cash related payroll taxes given that they are directly attributable to 
share-based compensation; they can include estimates and are therefore subject to change. For the three months and fiscal year 
ended March 31, 2023, excluding $5,637 of share-based compensation expense acceleration that was classified as restructuring, 
share-based compensation expense was $15,685 and $123,530, respectively (March 2022 - expense of $41,934 and $108,916), and 
related payroll taxes were an expense of $282 and $137, respectively (March 2022 - recovery of $309 and an expense of $150). 
These amounts are included in direct cost of revenues, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses and 
sales and marketing expenses (see note 8 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details). These 
expenses exclude share-based compensation classified as restructuring, which has been included in the restructuring expense.

These costs represent a portion of the consideration paid to acquired businesses that is contingent upon the ongoing employment 
obligations for certain key personnel of such acquired businesses, and/or on certain performance criteria being achieved.

(9)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3)

These expenses relate to professional, legal, consulting, accounting, advisory, and other fees relating to our public offerings and 
acquisitions that would otherwise not have been incurred. These costs are included in general and administrative expenses and sales 
and marketing expenses.

(4) Certain functions and the associated management structure were reorganized to realize synergies and ensure organizational agility. 

During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we announced a reorganization to streamline the Company's operating model while 
continuing to focus on disciplined growth. The expenses associated with this reorganization were recorded as a restructuring charge 
(see note 24 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details).

(5)

(6)

(7)

This amount represents a non-cash goodwill impairment charge (see note 16 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements 
for additional details).

These amounts represent provisions taken and other costs, such as legal fees, incurred in respect of certain litigation matters, net of 
amounts covered by insurance and indemnifications. These amounts do not include provisions taken and other costs incurred in 
respect of litigation matters of a nature that we consider normal to our business. These amounts are included in general and 
administrative expenses.

In periods where we reported an Adjusted Loss, as a result of the Adjusted Losses incurred, all potentially-dilutive securities have 
been excluded from the calculation of Adjusted Loss per Share - Diluted because including them would be anti-dilutive. Adjusted 
Loss per Share - Diluted is the same as Adjusted Loss per Share - Basic in these periods where we incurred an Adjusted Loss. 

Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities

Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities is defined as cash flows used in operating activities as adjusted for the 
payment of payroll taxes on share-based compensation, the payment of compensation expenses relating to acquisitions completed, 
the payment of transaction-related costs, the payment of restructuring costs, the payment of amounts related to litigation 
provisions net of amounts received as insurance and indemnification proceeds and the payment of amounts related to capitalized 
internal development costs. We use this measure as we believe including or excluding certain inflows and outflows provides a 
helpful supplemental indicator to investors on our business performance in regard to the Company's ability to generate cash flows. 
An explanation of the Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities can be found in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" 
section of this MD&A. The following table reconciles cash flows used in operating activities to Adjusted Cash Flows Used in 
Operating Activities for the periods indicated:

(In thousands of US dollars)

Cash flows used in operating activities
Payroll taxes related to share-based compensation(1)
Acquisition-related compensation(2)
Transaction-related costs(3)
Restructuring(4)
Litigation provisions(5)
Capitalized internal development costs(6)

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

(41,587)   
820 
2,547 
(2,621)   
15,230 
209 
(1,519)   

2022
$

(11,342)   
156 
746 
431 
501 
(366)   
— 

2023
$

(125,284)   
1,705 
8,590 
1,888 
17,722 
3,306 
(3,894)   

2022
$

(87,218) 
4,953 
7,839 
12,208 
1,590 
(654) 
— 

Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities

(26,921)   

(9,874)   

(95,967)   

(61,282) 

(1)

(2)

(3)

These amounts represent the cash inflow and outflow of payroll taxes on our issued stock options and other awards under our equity 
incentive plans to our employees and directors.

These amounts represent the cash outflow of a portion of the consideration paid to acquired businesses that is associated with the 
ongoing employment obligations for certain key personnel of such acquired businesses, and/or on certain performance criteria being 
achieved.

These amounts represent the cash outflows, and inflows due to timing differences, related to professional, legal, consulting, 
accounting, advisory, and other fees relating to our public offerings and acquisitions that would otherwise not have been incurred. 
These amounts also include adjustments related to the settlement of transaction-related costs of the targets that were outside the 
regular course of business for our acquisitions and which were assumed as liabilities on the relevant acquisition dates.  

(4) Certain functions and the associated management structure were reorganized to realize synergies and ensure organizational agility. 
During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we announced a reorganization to streamline the Company's operating model while 
continuing to focus on disciplined growth. The expenses associated with this reorganization were recorded as a restructuring charge 
(see note 24 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details).

(5)

These amounts represent the cash inflow and outflow in respect of provisions taken, and other costs such as legal fees incurred, in 
respect of certain litigation matters, net of amounts received as insurance and indemnification proceeds. These cash inflows and 

(10)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
outflows do not include cash inflows and outflows in respect of litigation matters of a nature that we consider normal to our 
business.

(6)

These amounts represent the cash outflows associated with capitalized internal development costs. These amounts are included 
within the cash flows used in investing activities section of the audited annual consolidated statements of cash flows. If these costs 
were not capitalized as an intangible asset, they would be part of our cash flows used in operating activities. There were no 
capitalized internal development costs in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. 

Outlook

A discussion of management's expectations as to the Company's outlook for the three months ending June 30, 2023 and fiscal year 
ending March 31, 2024 is contained in the Company's press release dated May 18, 2023 under the heading "Financial Outlook". 
The press release is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. Information contained in, or 
otherwise accessed through, such press release is not deemed part of this MD&A and such press release and information is not 
incorporated by reference herein.

Summary of Factors Affecting our Performance

We believe that the growth and future success of our business depends on many factors, including those described below. While 
each of these factors presents significant opportunities for our business, they also pose important challenges, some of which are 
discussed below, in the "Risk Factors" section of our most recent Annual Information Form, and in our other filings with the 
Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which can be found on 
SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov.

Market Adoption of our Platform

We intend to continue to drive adoption of our advanced commerce platform by scaling our solutions to meet the needs of both 
new and existing customers of all types and sizes, with our focus being on complex high GTV customers. We believe that there is 
significant potential to increase penetration of our total addressable market and attract new customers and that this potential has 
become even greater due to the accelerating need for SMBs to move away from legacy on-premise systems towards cloud-based 
omni-channel solutions. We plan to do this by further developing our products and services, embedding ourselves up and down 
the supply chain within the ecosystem of verticals as well as continuing to invest in marketing strategies tailored to attract new 
businesses to our platform, both in our existing geographies and new markets around the world. We also intend to selectively 
evaluate opportunities to offer our solutions to businesses operating in industry verticals that we do not currently serve. We plan 
to continue to invest in our platform to drive market adoption, particularly of our payments solutions, and our operating cash 
flows may fluctuate and our profitability may be impacted as we make these investments. Our market is large, evolving, highly-
fragmented, competitive and has low barriers to entry in many of the countries in which we operate. Our competitors range from 
large, well-established vendors to smaller, earlier-stage ones. We expect competition to intensify in the future, particularly as 
industry consolidation occurs and as large, well-established vendors increasingly service more complex customers or shift their 
focus to in-person shopping and services. Our focus will be on selling our flagship products globally, as we believe two core 
offerings will reduce complexity, help improve go-to-market momentum and help deliver stronger performance.

Customer Adoption of our Payments Solutions

After excluding Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, our payments solutions are now 
available to the majority of our Customer Locations. We believe that our payments solutions will continue to be an increasingly 
important part of our business as we continue to increase their availability throughout our customer base and across our core 
geographies. Our payments solutions are designed to be transparent and easy to understand, and we have priced our solutions at 
market competitive rates based on a percentage of GTV electronically processed through our platform. We continue to see 
increased adoption of our payment processing solutions, which are the largest driver of revenue growth for the Company. As an 
increasing proportion of our revenue is generated from our payments solutions, we believe that while our total revenues may 
grow, our gross margins will decrease over time due to the lower gross margin profile of our transaction-based revenue stream 
relative to the higher gross margin profile of our subscription revenue stream. As of the beginning of Fiscal 2024, we are now 
selling our POS and payments solutions together as one unified offering. We believe embedded payments results in the best 
experience for customers by improving consistency and reliability, streamlining support and billing, and enhancing opportunities 
for them to avail themselves of innovative product functionality. We are helping our customers by offering free hardware and 
implementation, helping with contract buy-outs and offering competitive rates. As a result of this initiative, we will require our 
eligible new and existing customers to adopt our payments solutions. We believe processing additional GTV for new and existing 

(11)

customers through our payments solutions will help advance our growth strategies and enable us to reduce complexity in our 
business. In addition, this initiative will help reduce the costs of supporting a variety of third party payment processors.

Cross-selling and Up-selling with Existing Customers

Our existing customers represent a significant opportunity to cross-sell and up-sell products and services with significantly lower 
sales and marketing expense. We use a "land and expand" approach, with many of our customers initially deploying our platform 
for a specific use case. Once they realize the benefits and wide functionality of our platform, they can expand the number of use 
cases including services such as Lightspeed Advanced Insights, Lightspeed Payments and Lightspeed Capital. We plan to 
continually invest in product development, and in sales and marketing, to add more solutions to our platform and to increase the 
usage and awareness of our solutions. Such investments include integrating Lightspeed B2B to enable inventory ordering straight 
from our merchants’ POS, and to provide brands with data insights on consumers and trends to optimize manufacturing and 
distribution. Our future revenue growth and our ability to achieve and maintain profitability is dependent upon our ability to 
maintain existing customer relationships and to continue to expand our customers’ use of our comprehensive suite of solutions. 

Economic Conditions and Resulting Consumer Spending Trends

Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and global events, including political, economic, social and 
environmental risks that may impact our operations or our customers’ operations. Such conditions and events may adversely 
affect consumer confidence, consumer spending, consumer discretionary income or changes in consumer purchasing habits. 
Deterioration in general economic conditions, including any rise in unemployment rates, inflation and increases in interest rates, 
have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect consumer spending, consumer debt levels and credit and debit card 
usage, and as a result, have adversely affected our financial performance by reducing the number of transactions or average 
purchase amount of transactions processed using our payments solutions. Deterioration in general economic conditions may also 
cause financial institutions to restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate cardholder credit 
concerns, which could further reduce the number or average purchase amount of transactions processed using our payments 
solutions. Many of the customers that use our platform are SMBs and many are also in the entrepreneurial stage of their 
development. SMBs may be disproportionately affected by the aforementioned economic conditions or economic downturns, 
especially if they sell discretionary goods. SMBs may also be disproportionately affected by other economic conditions, including 
labor shortages and global supply chain issues. SMBs frequently have limited budgets and may choose to allocate their spending 
to items other than our platform, especially in times of economic uncertainty or recessions. Economic and geopolitical 
uncertainties, including those related to the COVID-19 Pandemic, variants of the COVID-19 virus, and Russia's invasion of 
Ukraine may further amplify such risks.

Economic downturns have and may continue to adversely impact retail and hospitality sales, which could result in us processing 
lower payments volumes and customers who use our platform going out of business or deciding to stop using our services in order 
to conserve cash. Moreover, our customers that run restaurants or customers in certain of our retail verticals operate in industries 
which are intensely competitive and subject to heightened exposure to economic conditions affecting consumer discretionary 
spending, resulting in overall risk and a rate of failure that are typically greater than for businesses generally. 

Weakening economic conditions may also adversely affect third parties, including suppliers and partners, with whom we have 
entered into relationships and upon whom we depend in order to operate and grow our business. Uncertain and adverse economic 
conditions may also lead to increased write-offs of our trade receivables, and refunds and chargebacks or potential losses to our 
merchant cash advance program, any of which could adversely affect our business.

COVID-19 Pandemic 

The future impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on our business, financial condition and results of operations remains uncertain. 
Measures attempting to contain and mitigate the effects of the virus such as travel restrictions, self-isolation measures, mandatory 
closures of non-essential services and businesses, physical distancing practices, and the resulting effect on the operations of and 
spending by merchants, brands and consumers including supply chain issues have disrupted and may in the future disrupt our 
normal operations and impact our employees, vendors, partners, and our customers and their consumers. The degree to which 
COVID-19 will continue to affect our business, operating results and financial condition will depend on highly uncertain and 
unpredictable future developments.

The COVID-19 Pandemic has impacted and may in the future impact our customers, including their GTV, overall demand for our 
services, and anticipated subscription pauses and churn rates due to business closures and temporary business shutdowns. It has 
also limited, and may in the future limit, their ability to obtain inventory or ingredients and supplies, to generate sales, or to make 

(12)

timely payments to us. COVID-19 has also caused heightened uncertainty in the global economy. Slowdowns in economic 
growth, particularly where they reduce consumer spending, have negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our 
customers and our results of operations. Uncertain and adverse economic conditions may also lead to increased write-offs of our 
trade receivables, and refunds and chargebacks or potential losses for our merchant cash advance program and may require us to 
recognize an impairment related to our non-financial assets in our financial statements. See the risk factor in our Annual 
Information Form titled "We have in the past suffered losses due to goodwill impairment and may in the future suffer losses due to 
impairment charges" for more information.

Uncertainty in the global economy and market volatility has been and may in the future be exacerbated by new variants and 
mutations of the COVID-19 virus. Continued capital markets volatility may cause further declines in the price of our subordinate 
voting shares, increasing the risk that further securities class action lawsuits may be instituted against us.

The COVID-19 Pandemic and related restrictions may also disrupt or delay the ability of employees to work, cause delays or 
disruptions in services provided by our vendors, increase our vulnerability and that of our partners and service providers to 
security breaches, denial of service attacks or other hacking or phishing attacks, or cause other unpredictable events. The duration, 
severity and ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks 
described herein, in our most recent Annual Information Form and in our filings with Canadian securities regulatory authorities 
and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, although we have attempted to identify the COVID-19-related 
risks faced by our business, the uncertainty and lack of predictability around the COVID-19 Pandemic means there may be other 
risks not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material that could also affect our business, financial condition 
and results of operations. While it remains difficult to estimate the overall severity, extent or duration of the COVID-19 
Pandemic, to the extent it materially adversely affects our employees, customers, vendors, partners and/or other stakeholders, it 
may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Scaling our Sales and Marketing Team

Our ability to achieve significant growth in future revenue will largely depend upon the effectiveness of our sales and marketing 
efforts, both domestically and internationally. The majority of our sales and marketing efforts are accomplished in-house, and we 
believe the strength of our sales and marketing team is critical to our success. We have invested and intend to continue to invest 
meaningfully in terms of expanding our sales force, and consequently, we anticipate that our headcount will continue to increase 
as a result of these investments. To complement this strategy, we have begun to invest in outbound-led lead generation, 
particularly in our U.S. markets and for complex merchants and restaurateurs with high annual GTV. In certain instances, we have 
supplemented this approach with field sales teams.

Retaining and Motivating Qualified Personnel

Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our ability to identify, 
hire, develop, motivate and retain qualified personnel will directly affect our ability to maintain and grow our business, and such 
efforts will require significant time, expense and attention. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, 
specifically employees with technical and engineering skills and employees with high levels of experience in designing and 
developing software and internet-related services, will be critical to our future success and demand and competition for such talent 
is high. We are also substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers and increase sales to existing 
customers. There is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability 
to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining a sufficient 
number of sales personnel to support our growth. While we have in the past issued, and intend to continue to issue, options, 
restricted share units or other equity awards as key components of our overall compensation, employee attraction and retention 
efforts, we are required under IFRS to recognize shared-based compensation expense in our operating results for employee share-
based compensation under our equity grant programs which may increase the pressure to limit share-based compensation. See the 
risk factor in our Annual Information Form titled "If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business 
will suffer" for more information.

International Sales

We believe that global demand for our platform will continue to increase as SMBs seek out end-to-end solutions with omni-
channel capabilities to enable their businesses to thrive and succeed in an increasingly complex operating environment. 
Accordingly, we believe there is a significant opportunity to grow our international business. We have invested, and plan to 
continue to opportunistically invest, ahead of this potential demand in personnel and marketing, and to make selective acquisitions 
to support our international growth. For each new geography where we expand or seek to expand, we focus on understanding the 

(13)

needs of the local market and invest to develop relationships and our products, as well as understanding and complying with 
applicable local regulatory and compliance frameworks.

Seasonality

We believe our transaction-based revenues will continue to represent an increasing proportion of our overall revenue mix over 
time as a result of the continued customer adoption of our payments solutions, and we expect seasonality of our quarterly results 
to continue to increase. We expect our overall revenues to continue to become increasingly correlated with respect to the GTV 
processed by our customers through our platform.

Foreign Currency

Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our presentation and functional currency is the U.S. 
dollar. We derive the largest portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars and the largest proportion of our expenses in U.S. dollars. 
Exchange rate fluctuations have and may continue to negatively affect our revenue as our software subscriptions are generally 
billed in the local currency of the country in which the customer is located, and the underlying GPV (from which we earn 
transaction-based revenue) is also expected to be denominated in local currency. To the extent that we have significant revenues 
denominated in foreign currencies, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar would reduce our revenues as measured in U.S. dollars. 
Our head office and a significant portion of our employees are located in Canada, along with additional presence in Europe, 
Australia and New Zealand. A large amount of our expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars and Euros with a smaller proportion 
of expenses incurred in other foreign currencies. As a result, our expenses may be adversely impacted by a decrease in the value 
of the U.S. dollar relative to these currencies but primarily the Canadian dollar and the Euro. 

During Fiscal 2022, we adopted a hedging program to mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on future cash flows 
and expenses by entering into foreign exchange forward contracts which we have designated as cash flow hedges. Our hedging 
program does not mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our revenue. We do not have foreign exchange forward 
contracts in place with respect to all currencies in which we currently do business but may, from time to time, enter into additional 
foreign exchange forward contracts in respect of other foreign currencies. Currency hedging entails a risk of illiquidity and, to the 
extent the applicable foreign currency fluctuates in value against the U.S. dollar, the use of hedges could result in losses greater 
than if the hedging had not been used. There can be no assurance that our hedging strategies, if any, will be effective in the future 
or that we will be able to enter into foreign exchange forward contracts on satisfactory terms. See the "Risk Factors" section of 
our most recent Annual Information Form, which can be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov, 
for a discussion on exchange rate fluctuations.

Selective Pursuit of Acquisitions 

We have complemented our organic growth strategies by taking a targeted and opportunistic approach to acquisitions, identifying 
acquisition targets with a view to accelerating our product roadmap, increasing our market penetration, going deep into verticals 
and creating value for our shareholders. Throughout our history, we have accrued significant sales and marketing expertise, which 
we leverage to facilitate our continued global expansion both organically and in integrating the companies we acquire. 

We believe that we remain well-positioned to continue to grow organically around the globe and to selectively pursue new 
acquisitions given our experience and scale. However, such acquisitions and investments could divert management’s attention, 
result in operating difficulties due to a lack of timely and proper completion or integration, or otherwise disrupt our operations and 
adversely affect our business, operating results or financial position, regardless of whether such acquisitions and investments are 
ultimately completed. 

Goodwill Impairment

We have incurred a non-cash impairment charge for goodwill and may incur further impairment charges which would negatively 
impact our operating results. We account for goodwill impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, which 
among other things, requires that goodwill be tested for impairment at least annually. During the three months ended December 
31, 2022, there were changes in macroeconomic conditions and our share price and market capitalization decreased. This led to 
the carrying amount of our net assets exceeding our market capitalization as at December 31, 2022. This triggered an impairment 
test to be performed on the Company's goodwill for our operating segment (the "Segment") which is the level at which 
management monitors goodwill. The timing of this test also aligned with our annual impairment test of goodwill. Our test as at 
December 31, 2022 resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $748.7 million related to goodwill during the three months ended 
December 31, 2022 as the terminal value multiple was negatively impacted by the macroeconomic conditions and our share price 
decrease, and our revenue growth rate was negatively impacted by the macroeconomic impact on our customer's sales. 

(14)

If the carrying value of the Segment is below the Segment's recoverable amount in the future, we may have to recognize further 
goodwill impairment losses in our results of operations in future periods. This could impair our ability to achieve profitability in 
the future. Goodwill is more susceptible to impairment risk if business operating results or economic conditions deteriorate. We 
are required to perform our next annual goodwill impairment analysis on December 31, 2023, or earlier should there be a 
goodwill impairment trigger before then. For additional information, refer to note 16 of our audited annual consolidated financial 
statements for Fiscal 2023.

Key Components of Results of Operations

Revenues 

Subscription Revenue

We principally generate subscription-based revenue through the sale of subscriptions to our software solutions. We offer pricing 
plans designed to meet the needs of our current and prospective customers that enable our solutions to scale with customers as 
they grow. Our subscription plans are sold as monthly, one-year or multi-year plans. Subscription plans for our cloud-based 
solutions include maintenance and support. Customers purchase subscription plans directly from us or through our channel 
partners. In addition to the core subscriptions outlined above, customers can purchase add-on services such as delivery, advanced 
insights, accounting and inventory management, amongst others. In addition, we generate revenues through revenue sharing
agreements from our partners.

Transaction-based Revenue

We generate transaction-based revenues by providing our customers with the functionality to accept payments from consumers. 
Such revenues come in the form of transaction fees and represent a percentage of GTV processed by our customers through our 
offered solutions. We generate transaction-based revenues from our payments solutions as well as our revenue sharing agreements 
with our integrated payment partners. The revenue sharing arrangements mainly predate the availability of Lightspeed Payments 
and are also the result of inherited revenue streams from some of our acquisitions. Since we do not act as the principal in these 
arrangements, we recognize revenue from these streams at the net amount retained by us in accordance with IFRS. It also means 
we generally earn inferior economics as a result when compared to payments solutions in respect of which we act as principal 
given that we have less control of the underlying customer relationship. We have, on multiple occasions, been able to leverage our 
increased scale to renegotiate our relationships with our payments partners resulting in better payments economics overall. In 
addition, we have contracted with a number of third-party vendors that sell products to the same customers as the Company. We 
refer customers to these vendors and earn a referral fee. We also earn revenues from Lightspeed Capital, a merchant cash advance 
("MCA") program pursuant to which we purchase a designated amount of future receivables at a discount, and the customer 
remits a fixed percentage of their daily sales to us, until the outstanding balance has been fully remitted. 

Our payments solutions allow our customers to accept electronic payments in-store, through connected terminals and online. After 
excluding Customer Locations attributable to the Ecwid eCommerce standalone product, our payments solutions are now 
available to the majority of our Customer Locations. Offering embedded payments functionality is highly complementary to the 
platform we offer our customers today and will allow us to monetize a greater portion of the $87.1 billion in GTV processed in 
Fiscal 2023. 

Hardware and Other Revenue

These revenues are generally one-time revenues associated with the sale of hardware with which our solutions integrate and the 
sale of professional services in support of the installation and implementation of our solutions. We generate revenues through the 
sale of POS peripheral hardware such as our tablets, customer facing display, receipt printers, networking hardware, cash drawers, 
payment terminals, servers, stands, bar-code scanners, and an assortment of accessories.

Although our software solutions are intended to be turnkey solutions that can be used by the customer as delivered, we provide 
professional services to our customers in some circumstances in the form of on-site installations and implementations. These 
implementation services are typically delivered through our internal integrations team or through a network of certified partners. 
Additionally, from time to time we earn one-time fees for integration work performed pursuant to certain strategic partnerships. 

(15)

Direct Cost of Revenues

Subscription Cost of Revenue

Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes salaries and other employee related costs for a subset of the support team, costs 
associated with hosting infrastructure for our services and certain corporate overhead allocations. Significant expenses include 
costs of our support including total salaries and benefits, share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, data center capacity 
costs, professional fees and other third-party direct costs such as customer support and royalties and amounts paid to third-party 
cloud service providers.

Transaction-based Cost of Revenue

Transaction-based cost of revenue primarily includes direct costs when transactions are processed using our payments solutions, 
direct costs related to our merchant cash advance program, salaries and other employee related costs, including share-based 
compensation and related payroll taxes, for a subset of the support team, and certain corporate overhead allocations. The direct 
costs include costs of interchange and network assessment fees, processing fees, and bank settlement fees to third-party payment 
processors and financial institutions involved in settlement.

Hardware and Other Cost of Revenue

Cost of these revenues primarily includes costs associated with our hardware solutions, such as the cost of acquiring the hardware 
inventory, including hardware purchase price, expenses associated with third-party fulfillment companies, shipping and handling 
and inventory adjustments, expenses related to costs of professional services provided to customers, salaries and other employee 
related costs, including share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, and other corporate overhead allocations.

Operating Expenses 

General and Administrative

General and administrative expenses consist of salaries and other employee related costs, including share-based compensation and 
related payroll taxes, for finance, accounting, legal, administrative, human resources, as well as financial services. These expenses 
also consist of expenses related to information technology, information systems, information security, and corporate data 
employees which expenses are partially allocated to research and development, sales and marketing, and direct cost of revenues. 
General and administrative expenses also include other professional fees, transaction-related costs related to our acquisitions, 
litigation costs, costs associated with internal systems and general corporate expenses. As a public company in the United States, 
it is expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we continue to have to manage trade-offs between 
accepting reduced coverage or incurring higher costs to continue or expand our coverage, although changes to the laws and 
regulations governing insurance coverage for companies domiciled in Quebec have had a favorable impact on certain of our 
premiums. In the longer term, we expect general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of total revenues as we 
focus on processes, systems and controls to enable our internal support functions to scale with the growth of our business. 

Research and Development

Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and other employee related costs, including share-based 
compensation and related taxes, for product-related functions including product management, core development, data, product 
design and development and other corporate overhead allocations. We continue to invest our research and development efforts on 
developing added features and solutions, as well as increasing the functionality and enhancing the ease of use of our platform. 
These expenses give rise to tax credits primarily from the Canadian Federal Scientific Research and Experimental Development 
Program and the Tax Credit for the Development of e-business, or "SR&ED" and "e-business" tax credits, respectively. Although 
the Company's e-business tax credits are mostly refundable, a portion of e-business tax credits is non-refundable and is carried 
forward to reduce future Quebec income taxes payable and SR&ED tax credits are non-refundable and are carried forward to 
reduce future federal income taxes payable. Given the Company’s recent losses in Canada, these non-refundable SR&ED credits 
and e-business credits have not been recognized in the financial statements. Upon recognition, they will reduce research and 
development expenses. Although not immediately, given that we are still scaling our technology group in line with anticipated 
growth, we expect research and development expenses to decline in proportion to total revenue as we achieve additional 
economies of scale from our expansion. The Company recognizes internal development costs as intangible assets only when 
certain criteria are met (refer to note 3 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for more details).

(16)

Sales and Marketing

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of selling and marketing costs and salaries and other employee related costs, 
including share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, for sales and business development and marketing. Other costs 
within sales and marketing include costs of acquisition of new customers, travel-related expenses and corporate overhead 
allocations. We plan to continue to expand sales and marketing efforts to attract new customers, retain existing customers and 
increase revenues from both new and existing customers. Over time, we expect sales and marketing expenses will decline as a 
percentage of total revenues as we achieve additional economies of scale from our expansion and as we sell more of our 
technology suite, including our payments solutions, to our existing customer base.

Acquisition-related Compensation

Acquisition-related compensation expenses represent the portion of the consideration paid to acquired businesses which is 
contingent upon the ongoing employment or service obligations for certain key personnel of such acquired businesses, and/or on 
certain performance criteria being achieved. This portion of the purchase price is amortized over the related service period for 
those key personnel.

(17)

Results of Operations

The following table outlines our consolidated statements of loss for the three months and the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023 
and 2022:

(In thousands of US dollars, except per share amounts)

Revenues
Subscription 
Transaction-based 
Hardware and other 

Total revenues

Direct cost of revenues
Subscription 
Transaction-based 
Hardware and other

Total cost of revenues

Gross profit

Operating expenses
General and administrative
Research and development
Sales and marketing
Depreciation of property and equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
Foreign exchange loss (gain)
Acquisition-related compensation
Amortization of intangible assets
Restructuring
Goodwill impairment

Total operating expenses

Operating loss

Net interest income

Loss before income taxes

Income tax expense (recovery)
Current
Deferred

Total income tax expense (recovery)

Net loss

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

76,215   
99,568   
8,445   

2022
$

70,542 
66,729 
9,287 

2023
$

2022
$

298,763   
399,552   
32,191   

248,430 
264,044 
35,898 

184,228   

146,558 

730,506   

548,372 

19,036   
66,539   
11,692   

20,657 
43,822 
12,426 

80,064   
271,035   
47,446   

72,192 
159,432 
45,575 

97,267   

76,905 

398,545   

277,199 

86,961   

69,653 

331,961   

271,173 

22,139   
30,805   
56,884   
1,735   
2,025   
297   
5,746   
24,620   
25,549   
—   

28,240 
36,837 
67,388 
1,789 
2,032 
29 
20,433 
26,151 
606 
— 

105,939   
140,442   
250,371   
5,471   
8,244   
(199)  
41,792   
101,546   
28,683   
748,712   

95,253 
121,150 
216,659 
4,993 
7,743 
611 
50,491 
91,812 
803 
— 

169,800   

183,505 

1,431,001   

589,515 

(82,839)  

(113,852)   

(1,099,040)  

(318,342) 

9,654   

1,014 

24,812   

2,988 

(73,185)  

(112,838)   

(1,074,228)  

(315,354) 

1,651   
(368)  

1,283   

282 
1,397 

1,679 

2,469   
(6,688)  

1,103 
(28,024) 

(4,219)  

(26,921) 

(74,468)  

(114,517)   

(1,070,009)  

(288,433) 

Net loss per share – basic and diluted

(0.49)  

(0.77)   

(7.11)  

(2.04) 

(18)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table outlines share-based compensation and the related payroll taxes associated with these expenses included in 
the results of operations for the three months and the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022:

(In thousands of US dollars)

Direct cost of revenues

General and administrative

Research and development

Sales and marketing

Restructuring

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

835   

3,533   

4,491   

7,108   

5,637   

2022
$

2,149 

10,736 

10,319 

18,421 

— 

2023
$

6,945   

33,963   

35,504   

47,255   

5,637   

2022
$

6,345 

26,377 

29,705 

46,639 

— 

Total share-based compensation and related costs

21,604   

41,625 

129,304   

109,066 

For the three months and fiscal year ended March 31, 2023, excluding $5,637 of share-based compensation expense acceleration that was 
classified as restructuring, the share-based compensation expense was $15,685 and $123,530, respectively (March 2022 - expense of $41,934 
and $108,916), and the related payroll taxes were an expense of $282 and $137, respectively (March 2022 - recovery of $309 and expense of 
$150). 

The increase in share-based compensation and related payroll taxes in Fiscal 2023 was primarily driven by the issuance of stock 
options and awards to new and existing employees, including those from our acquisitions, to our Chief Executive Officer 
("CEO"), Chief Operating Officer ("COO") and Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") in connection with their respective promotions 
to these positions towards the end of Fiscal 2022, and to key personnel and executives as retention incentives in a competitive job 
market. The decrease in share-based compensation and related costs in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due 
to the forfeitures of awards of employees who were included in the restructuring during the quarter, and a reduction in the expense 
for PSUs issued to the founders of NuORDER in the three months ended March 31, 2022. 

Results of Operations for the Three Months and Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022

Revenues

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Revenues

Subscription 

Transaction-based 

Hardware and other 

Total revenues

Percentage of total revenues

Subscription 

Transaction-based

Hardware and other

Total

Subscription Revenue

  76,215 

  70,542 

  99,568 

  66,729 

5,673 

32,839 

 8.0 

 298,763 

 248,430 

50,333 

 49.2 

 399,552 

 264,044 

  135,508 

 20.3 

 51.3 

  8,445 

  9,287 

(842) 

 (9.1) 

  32,191 

  35,898 

(3,707) 

 (10.3) 

 184,228 

 146,558 

37,670 

 25.7 

 730,506 

 548,372 

  182,134 

 33.2 

 41.4 %

 54.0 %

 4.6 %

 48.1 %

 45.5 %

 6.4 %

 100 %

 100 %

 40.9 %

 54.7 %

 4.4 %

 45.3 %

 48.2 %

 6.5 %

 100 %

 100 %

Subscription revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $5.7 million or 8% as compared to the three 
months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to growth in our subscription customer base, including Customer 

(19)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Locations processing over $500,000/year, adoption of our new flagship solutions and customers adopting additional modules of 
our platform. The increase in revenue was offset by lower exchange rates on currencies other than U.S. dollars in the quarter.

Subscription revenue for Fiscal 2023 increased by $50.3 million or 20% as compared to Fiscal 2022. The increase was primarily 
due to growth in our subscription customer base, including Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year and Customer 
Locations from the acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, adoption of our new flagship solutions, and customers adopting 
additional modules of our platform. The increase in revenue was offset by lower exchange rates on currencies other than U.S. 
dollars in the period. 

Transaction-based Revenue 

Transaction-based revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $32.8 million or 49% as compared to the 
three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to continued adoption of our payments solutions which led 
to an increase in GPV of 70% from $2.2 billion to $3.8 billion. 

Transaction-based revenue for Fiscal 2023 increased by $135.5 million or 51% as compared to Fiscal 2022. The increase was 
primarily due to continued adoption of our payments solutions which led to an increase in GPV of 81% from $8.1 billion to 
$14.7 billion. 

Hardware & Other Revenue

Hardware and other revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $0.8 million or 9% as compared to the three 
months ended March 31, 2022 due to additional discounts and incentives provided during the three months ended March 31, 2023 
in order to encourage new business given the competitive nature of our industry. Lower exchange rates on currencies other than 
U.S. dollars in the quarter also contributed to the decrease in revenue.

Hardware and other revenue for Fiscal 2023 decreased by $3.7 million or 10% as compared to Fiscal 2022 due to additional 
discounts and incentives provided during Fiscal 2023 in order to encourage new business given the competitive nature of our 
industry. Lower exchange rates on currencies other than U.S. dollars in the period also contributed to the decrease in revenue.

Direct Cost of Revenues

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

Direct cost of revenues

Subscription 

Transaction-based

Hardware and other 

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

  19,036 

  20,657 

  66,539 

  43,822 

(1,621) 

22,717 

 (7.8) 

  80,064 

  72,192 

7,872 

 51.8 

 271,035 

 159,432 

  111,603 

  11,692 

  12,426 

(734) 

 (5.9) 

  47,446 

  45,575 

1,871 

 10.9 

 70.0 

 4.1 

 43.8 

Total costs of revenues

  97,267 

  76,905 

20,362 

 26.5 

 398,545 

 277,199 

  121,346 

Percentage of revenue

Subscription 

Transaction-based

Hardware and other

Total

Subscription Cost of Revenue

 25.0 %

 66.8 %

 29.3 %

 65.7 %

 138.4 %  133.8 %

 52.8 %

 52.5 %

 26.8 %

 67.8 %

 29.1 %

 60.4 %

 147.4 %  127.0 %

 54.6 %

 50.5 %

Subscription cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $1.6 million or 8% as compared to the 
three months ended March 31, 2022. Included in subscription cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 was 
$0.7 million in share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, compared to $1.7 million in the three months ended 
March 31, 2022. The remainder of the decrease of $0.6 million was primarily due to a decrease in salary and other employee-

(20)

 
 
 
 
 
 
related costs of $2.0 million offset by higher hosting costs of $0.9 million associated with supporting a greater number of 
Customer Locations utilizing our platform, including Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year, higher royalties of $0.3 
million and higher professional fees and other costs of $0.2 million.

Subscription cost of revenue for Fiscal 2023 increased by $7.9 million or 11% as compared to Fiscal 2022. Included in 
subscription cost of revenue for Fiscal 2023 was $5.7 million in share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, compared to 
$5.0 million in Fiscal 2022. The remainder of the increase of $7.2 million was primarily due to higher salary and other employee-
related costs of $1.0 million, higher hosting costs of $3.7 million associated with supporting a greater number of Customer 
Locations utilizing our platform, including Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year and Customer Locations from the 
acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, higher royalties of $1.6 million and higher professional fees and other costs of $0.9 
million.

Transaction-based Cost of Revenue

Transaction-based cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $22.7 million or 52% as compared to 
the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to direct costs related to higher revenue from our 
payments solutions compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. 

Transaction-based cost of revenue for Fiscal 2023 increased by $111.6 million or 70% as compared to Fiscal 2022. The increase 
was primarily due to direct costs related to higher revenue from our payments solutions compared to Fiscal 2022. 

Hardware and Other Cost of Revenue

Direct cost of hardware and other revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $0.7 million or 6% as 
compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 mainly due to lower salary and other employee-related costs of $0.2 million 
and lower hardware costs of $0.6 million for the period. The negative margins were due to discounts and incentives provided in 
order to encourage new business given the competitive nature of our industry.

Direct cost of hardware and other revenue for Fiscal 2023 increased by $1.9 million or 4% as compared to Fiscal 2022 mainly due 
to higher salary and other employee-related costs of $1.0 million and increased hardware costs of $1.0 million for the period. The 
negative margins were due to discounts and incentives provided in order to encourage new business given the competitive nature 
of our industry.

Gross Profit

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Gross profit

  86,961 

  69,653 

17,308 

 24.8 

 331,961 

 271,173 

60,788 

 22.4 

Percentage of total revenues

 47.2 %

 47.5 %

 45.4 %

 49.5 %

Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased by $17.3 million or 25% compared to the three months ended 
March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to growth in our subscription and transaction-based revenue as a result of more 
Customer Locations using our platform, including Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year, the adoption of our new 
flagship solutions and an increase in the GTV processed by our customers through our platform. A higher proportion of 
transaction-based revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022 
reduced gross profit as a percentage of revenue. Our gross profit benefited from $0.8 million in savings in salary and other 
employee-related costs due to the restructuring we announced during the three months ended March 31, 2023.

Gross profit for Fiscal 2023 increased by $60.8 million or 22% compared to Fiscal 2022. The increase was primarily due to 
growth in our subscription and transaction-based revenue as a result of more Customer Locations using our platform, including 
Customer Locations processing over $500,000/year, the adoption of our new flagship solutions, an increase in the GTV processed 
by our customers through our platform, and the impact of our acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, partially offset by lower 

(21)

 
 
margins in hardware and other revenue. A higher proportion of transaction-based revenue in Fiscal 2023 as compared to Fiscal 
2022 reduced gross profit as a percentage of revenue.

Operating Expenses

General and Administrative

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

General and administrative

  22,139 

  28,240 

(6,101) 

 (21.6) 

 105,939 

  95,253 

10,686 

 11.2 

Percentage of total revenues

 12.0 %

 19.3 %

 14.5 %

 17.4 %

General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $6.1 million or 22% compared to 
the three months ended March 31, 2022. Included in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 
2023 is $3.5 million of share-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, $2.3 million in transaction-related costs and 
$0.2 million related to provisions and other costs incurred in respect of certain litigation matters, net of amounts covered by 
insurance and indemnification proceeds, compared to $10.7 million, $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in the three 
months ended March 31, 2022. When excluding share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, transaction-related costs and 
provisions and other costs incurred in respect of certain litigation matters, net of amounts covered by insurance and 
indemnification proceeds, general and administrative expenses decreased by $0.3 million driven by a decrease of $0.3 million 
from lower salary and other employee-related costs which includes $1.0 million in savings from the restructuring announced 
during the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $0.7 million related to professional fees and other expenses and a 
decrease of $0.7 million in D&O insurance, offset by a $1.4 million increase in bad debt expense which is expected as our 
revenue continues to increase and as we grow our merchant cash advance business. Our general and administrative expenses as a 
percentage of revenue decreased from 19% to 12% from the three months ended March 31, 2022 to the three months ended 
March 31, 2023. 

General and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2023 increased by $10.7 million or 11% compared to Fiscal 2022. Included in 
general and administrative expenses for Fiscal 2023 is $34.0 million of share-based compensation expense and related payroll 
taxes, $5.1 million in transaction-related costs and $1.4 million related to provisions and other costs incurred in respect of certain 
litigation matters, net of amounts covered by insurance and indemnification proceeds, compared to $26.4 million, $8.4 million 
and $1.7 million, respectively, in Fiscal 2022. When excluding share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, transaction-
related costs and provisions and other costs incurred in respect of certain litigation matters, net of amounts covered by insurance 
and indemnification proceeds, general and administrative expenses increased by $6.7 million driven by higher salary and other 
employee-related costs of $7.1 million, which includes $0.2 million from the acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, and a $2.6 
million increase in bad debt expense, offset by a $2.1 million decrease in D&O insurance and a $0.9 million decrease in 
professional fees and other expenses. Our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 17% to 
15% from Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2023. 

Research and Development

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Research and development

  30,805 

  36,837 

(6,032) 

 (16.4) 

 140,442 

 121,150 

19,292 

 15.9 

Percentage of total revenues

 16.7 %

 25.1 %

 19.2 %

 22.1 %

Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $6.0 million or 16% compared to 
the three months ended March 31, 2022. Included in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 

(22)

 
 
 
 
2023 is $4.5 million of share-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes compared to $10.3 million in the three months 
ended March 31, 2022. When excluding share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, research and development expenses 
decreased by $0.2 million driven by lower salary and other employee-related costs of $1.1 million which includes $2.2 million in 
savings from the restructuring announced during the three months ended March 31, 2023 offset by an increase in salary and other 
employee-related costs of employees working on our flagship products, and $0.4 million related to a decrease in hosting costs, 
offset by $1.3 million related to an increase in professional fees and other expenses. Our research and development costs as a 
percentage of revenue decreased from 25% to 17% from the three months ended March 31, 2022 to the three months ended 
March 31, 2023. 

Research and development expenses for Fiscal 2023 increased by $19.3 million or 16% compared to Fiscal 2022. Included in 
research and development expenses for Fiscal 2023 is $35.5 million of share-based compensation expense and related payroll 
taxes compared to $29.7 million in Fiscal 2022. When excluding share-based compensation and related payroll taxes, research 
and development expenses increased by $13.5 million driven by higher salary and other employee-related costs of $6.9 million, 
which includes $5.1 million from the acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, $0.4 million related to an increase in hosting costs 
and $6.2 million related to an increase in professional fees and other expenses. Our research and development costs as a 
percentage of revenue decreased from 22% to 19% from Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2023.

Sales and Marketing

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Sales and marketing

  56,884 

  67,388 

(10,504) 

 (15.6) 

 250,371 

 216,659 

33,712 

 15.6 

Percentage of total revenues

 30.9 %

 46.0 %

 34.3 %

 39.5 %

Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $10.5 million or 16% as compared to the 
three months ended March 31, 2022. Included in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023 is $7.1 
million of share-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes and nil transaction-related costs compared to $18.4 million 
and $0.3 million, respectively, in the three months ended March 31, 2022. When excluding share-based compensation and related 
payroll taxes and transaction-related costs, sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.1 million driven by higher salary and 
other employee-related costs of $5.3 million which includes $2.0 million in savings from the restructuring announced during the 
three months ended March 31, 2023 offset by an increase in salary and other employee-related costs including employees selling 
our flagship products, offset by $0.1 million related to a decrease in professional fees and other expenses and a $4.1 million 
decrease in other investments in sales and marketing. Our sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue decreased from 
46% to 31% from the three months ended March 31, 2022 to the three months ended March 31, 2023. 

Sales and marketing expenses for Fiscal 2023 increased by $33.7 million or 16% as compared to Fiscal 2022. Included in sales 
and marketing expenses for Fiscal 2023 is $47.3 million of share-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes and $0.7 
million in transaction-related costs compared to $46.6 million and $1.2 million, respectively, in Fiscal 2022. When excluding 
share-based compensation and related payroll taxes and transaction-related costs, sales and marketing expenses increased by 
$33.6 million driven by higher salary and other employee-related costs of $22.2 million which includes $5.3 million from the 
acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, $7.4 million incurred for other investments in sales and marketing including marketing 
acquisition and growth spend and trade shows, $3.3 million related to our annual sales, customer and partner summit which we 
had provided in a virtual format in the prior comparable period and brought back to in person during the three months ended June 
30, 2022, and $0.7 million related to an increase in professional fees and other expenses. Our sales and marketing costs as a 
percentage of revenue decreased from 40% to 34% from Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2023.

(23)

 
 
Depreciation

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

Depreciation of property and 
equipment

Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

1,735 

2,025 

3,760 

1,789 

2,032 

3,821 

(54) 

(7) 

(61) 

 (3.0) 

  5,471 

  4,993 

 (0.3) 

  8,244 

  7,743 

 (1.6) 

  13,715 

  12,736 

478 

501 

979 

 9.6 

 6.5 

 7.7 

Percentage of total revenues

 2.0 %

 2.6 %

 1.9 %

 2.3 %

Depreciation of property and equipment and right-of-use assets for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by 2% as 
compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in the depreciation of property and equipment results mainly 
from fully depreciated fixed assets in the last 12 months offset by additions to property and equipment. The consistent 
depreciation of right-of-use assets is mainly the result of signing new lease commitments offset by lease terminations in the last 
12 months.

Depreciation of property and equipment expenses for Fiscal 2023 increased by $0.5 million or 10% as compared to Fiscal 2022. 
The increase in the depreciation of property and equipment results from additions to property and equipment made throughout the 
last 12 months. The increase in the depreciation of right-of-use assets of $0.5 million or 6% is mainly the result of leases obtained 
through the acquisition of NuORDER and new lease commitments offset by lease terminations in the last 12 months.

Foreign Exchange Loss (Gain) 

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

Foreign exchange loss (gain)

Three months ended 
March 31,

2023
$

297 

2022
$

29 

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

268 

 924.1 

(199) 

611 

(810) 

 (132.6) 

Percentage of total revenues

 0.2 %

 0.0 %

 0.0 %

 0.1 %

Foreign exchange loss for the three months ended March 31, 2023 increased as compared to the three months ended March 31, 
2022. The foreign exchange difference went from a foreign exchange loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022 to a foreign 
exchange gain for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023. Foreign exchange gains and losses arise as we have financial assets and 
liabilities outstanding in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our functional currency. Items included in our results are measured 
in U.S. dollars and foreign currency transactions are translated into U.S. dollars using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of 
the transactions or when items are re-measured with resulting gains and losses subsequently recognized. 

Acquisition-related Compensation

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Acquisition-related compensation

5,746 

  20,433 

(14,687) 

 (71.9) 

  41,792 

  50,491 

(8,699) 

 (17.2) 

Percentage of total revenues

 3.1 %

 13.9 %

 5.7 %

 9.2 %

(24)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acquisition-related compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $14.7 million or 72% 
compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease is due to lower deferred compensation from our acquisitions 
of Ecwid and NuORDER, which have both been partially settled. The majority of this acquisition-related compensation is tied to 
ongoing employment obligations in connection with certain of our acquisitions. This acquisition-related compensation was not 
included in the total purchase consideration, but rather was treated as an acquisition-related compensation expense for post-
combination services.

Acquisition-related compensation expense for Fiscal 2023 decreased by $8.7 million or 17% compared to Fiscal 2022. The 
decrease is due to lower deferred compensation from our acquisitions of NuORDER, iKentoo, Kounta and Gastrofix, which have 
all been either partially or fully settled, offset by additional deferred compensation from Ecwid. The majority of this acquisition-
related compensation is tied to ongoing employment obligations in connection with certain of our acquisitions. This acquisition-
related compensation was not included in the total purchase consideration, but rather was treated as an acquisition-related 
compensation expense for post-combination services.

Amortization of Intangible Assets

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Amortization of intangible assets

  24,620 

  26,151 

(1,531) 

 (5.9) 

 101,546 

  91,812 

9,734 

 10.6 

Percentage of total revenues

 13.4 %

 17.8 %

 13.9 %

 16.7 %

Amortization of intangible assets for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $1.5 million or 6% as compared to the 
three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in amortization relates primarily to the Chronogolf customer relationships and 
the Kounta and Gastrofix software technology intangible assets which are fully amortized as at March 31, 2023.

Amortization of intangible assets for Fiscal 2023 increased by $9.7 million or 11% as compared to Fiscal 2022. The increase in 
amortization relates primarily to intangibles acquired through the NuORDER and Ecwid acquisitions offset by a decrease in 
amortization relating to the Chronogolf customer relationships and the Kounta and Gastrofix software technology intangible 
assets.

Restructuring

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

Restructuring

Three months ended 
March 31,

2023
$

  25,549 

2022
$

606 

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

24,943 

 4,116.0 

  28,683 

803 

27,880 

 3,472.0 

Percentage of total revenues

 13.9 %

 0.4 %

 3.9 %

 0.1 %

During the three months ended March 31, 2023, we announced a reorganization to streamline the Company's operating model 
while continuing to focus on disciplined growth. This new structure represents the next deliberate step to integrate all of our 
acquired companies and products now that we have successfully launched our flagship products in both retail and hospitality. The 
reorganization included the reduction of approximately 300 roles. We plan to continue to hire core go-to-market and development 
roles that support disciplined growth. The expenses associated with this plan were recorded as a restructuring charge. The 
restructuring expense consists of severance costs, the acceleration of share-based compensation and the acceleration of 
acquisition-related compensation (see note 24 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details). 

(25)

 
 
 
 
 
 
Goodwill Impairment

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

Goodwill impairment

2023
$

— 

2022
$

— 

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

— 

 0.0 

 748,712 

— 

  748,712 

 100.0 

Percentage of total revenues

 0.0 %

 0.0 %

 102.5 %

 0.0 %

An impairment test of goodwill was completed as at December 31, 2022 using a fair value less costs of disposal model. This test 
demonstrated a non-cash impairment charge of $748.7 million related to goodwill during the three months ended December 31, 
2022. We reassessed the key assumptions used in the December 31, 2022 test as at March 31, 2023 and found no reduction in the 
terminal value multiple, no increase in the discount rate and no decrease in the revenue growth rate. A reduction in the terminal 
value multiple, an increase in the discount rate or a decrease in the revenue growth rate could cause additional impairment in the 
future (see note 16 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements for additional details).

Other Income

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

Net interest income

  9,654 

  1,014 

8,640 

 852.1 

  24,812 

  2,988 

21,824 

 730.4 

Percentage of total revenues

 5.2 %

 0.7 %

 3.4 %

 0.5 %

Net interest income relates to interest income earned in the period on cash and cash equivalents of $26.9 million during Fiscal 
2023 offset by the interest arising from the loan drawdown made in connection with the acquisition of Gastrofix in January 2020, 
as well as interest expense on both the lease liabilities and acquisition-related compensation which expenses combined totaled 
$2.1 million of interest expense for Fiscal 2023. Net interest income for Fiscal 2023 increased by $21.8 million or 730% as 
compared to Fiscal 2022 due to an increase in interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents of $21.0 million related to 
higher interest rates and a decrease in interest expense of $0.8 million due primarily to the full repayment of the balance of our 
stand-by acquisition term loan on July 6, 2022.

Income Taxes

(In thousands of US dollars, except 
percentages)

Income tax expense (recovery)

Current

Deferred

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change 
%

2023
$

2022
$

Change
$

Change
%

  1,651 

282 

1,369 

 485.5 

  2,469 

  1,103 

(368) 

  1,397 

(1,765) 

 (126.3) 

  (6,688) 

  (28,024) 

1,366 

21,336 

 123.8 

 (76.1) 

Total income tax expense (recovery)

  1,283 

  1,679 

(396) 

 (23.6) 

  (4,219) 

  (26,921) 

22,702 

 (84.3) 

Percentage of total revenues

Current

Deferred

Total

 0.9 %

 (0.2) %

 0.7 %

 0.2 %

 1.0 %

 1.2 %

 0.3 %

 (0.9) %

 0.2 %

 (5.1) %

 (0.6) %

 (4.9) %

(26)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 decreased by $0.4 million or 24% as compared to the three 
months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease is due to lower deferred income taxes of $1.8 million offset by an increase in current 
income tax expense of $1.4 million. The current income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 primarily relates 
to additional income taxes related to one of our acquisitions and a taxable income position in certain European subsidiaries. The 
deferred income tax recovery for the three months ended March 31, 2023 mainly relates to timing differences on share-based 
compensation and other temporary deductible differences while the deferred income tax expense in the three months ended 
March 31, 2022 mainly relates to the impact of the recognition of a deferred tax liability related to acquired intangibles.

Income tax recovery for Fiscal 2023 decreased by $22.7 million or 84% as compared to Fiscal 2022. The decrease is mainly due 
to a decrease in deferred income tax recovery of $21.3 million in Fiscal 2023 compared to Fiscal 2022. The deferred income tax 
recovery in Fiscal 2022 was primarily due to the recognition of a deferred tax asset on loss carry-forwards to offset the net 
deferred tax liability of NuORDER and Ecwid as they joined Lightspeed's United States consolidated tax group while the deferred 
income tax recovery in Fiscal 2023 is primarily due to the amortization of acquired intangible assets and increases in loss carry-
forwards during the period.

Selected Annual Information

(In thousands of US dollars, except per share data)

Total revenues

Net loss 

Loss per share – basic and diluted

Total assets

Total long-term liabilities

Fiscal year ended March 31,

2023
$

2022
$

2021
$

730,506   

548,372   

221,728 

(1,070,009)   

(288,433)   

(124,278) 

(7.11)   

(2.04)   

(1.18) 

2,668,732   

3,619,980   

2,105,319 

20,826   

62,839   

57,634 

See “Results of Operations” in this MD&A for a more detailed discussion of the year-over-year changes in revenues and net loss.

Total Assets

Fiscal 2023 Compared to Fiscal 2022

Total assets decreased by $951.2 million or 26% from Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2023 with cash and cash equivalents accounting for 
$153.5 million of the decrease primarily due to the repayment of the balance outstanding under our stand-by acquisition term loan 
of $30.0 million and cash spent on operating activities of $125.3 million. Goodwill decreased by $753.7 million due to a non-cash 
impairment charge of $748.7 million and a $5.0 million decrease due to foreign currency differences on translation of foreign 
operations. The lease right-of-use assets and intangibles accounted for $4.6 million and $98.1 million of the decrease respectively, 
primarily due to the depreciation and amortization taken during the period. The decrease in total assets was offset by an increase 
in trade and other receivables of $38.6 million which is primarily due to growing trade receivables and merchant cash advances in 
addition to higher research and development tax credits receivables and accrued interest. In addition, the decrease in total assets 
was offset by an increase in other short term and long term assets of $1.5 million and $10.1 million, respectively, primarily related 
to an increase in commission and contract assets and a long-term investment of $1.5 million in an entity supporting local 
businesses, an increase in property and equipment of $3.0 million and an increase in inventory of $5.3 million. 

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021

Total assets increased by $1,514.7 million or 72% from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 ("Fiscal 2021") to Fiscal 2022 with 
cash accounting for $146.5 million of the increase primarily due to our August 2021 public offering, offset by cash spent in the 
Vend, NuORDER and Ecwid acquisitions. Goodwill increased by $1,132.4 million and intangibles by $175.1 million, net of 
amortization and exchange differences, related primarily to the acquisitions of Vend, NuORDER and Ecwid. Trade and other 
receivables accounted for $21.0 million of the increase which is primarily due to receivables assumed in our recent acquisitions, 
an increase in acquisition-related receivables from the sellers of our acquisitions which includes indemnification assets and 
working capital adjustments, and growing trade receivables and merchant cash advances given the growth of our business. The 
lease right-of-use assets accounted for $4.3 million of the increase mainly due to the leases assumed through our acquisitions and 

(27)

 
 
 
 
 
other new leases entered into in the period, property and equipment accounted for $8.1 million of the increase mainly due to an 
increase in leasehold improvements, other long term assets accounted for $9.9 million of the increase, and inventory accounted for 
$6.0 million of the increase. In addition, other current assets accounted for $11.4 million of the increase due to a D&O insurance 
prepayment, other assets obtained through our acquisitions as well as a deposit made in connection with our merchant cash 
advance business.  

Total Liabilities

Fiscal 2023 Compared to Fiscal 2022

Total liabilities decreased by $49.4 million or 22% from Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2023 driven by a decrease in current liabilities of 
$7.4 million and a decrease in long-term liabilities of $42.0 million. The main drivers of the decrease in current liabilities were a 
decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $2.7 million, a decrease in lease liabilities of $1.0 million, a decrease in trade 
payables of $2.3 million and a decrease in acquisition-related payables of $5.2 million offset by an increase in deferred revenue of 
$2.9 million.  The main drivers of the decrease in long-term liabilities were the repayment of the balance outstanding under our 
stand-by acquisition term loan of $30.0 million, a decrease in lease liabilities of $4.5 million and a decrease of $6.8 million in 
deferred tax liabilities.

Fiscal 2022 Compared to Fiscal 2021

Total current liabilities increased by $44.5 million from Fiscal 2021 to Fiscal 2022. The main drivers of this amount were an 
increase in the deferred revenue of $22.1 million, an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $13.3 million, an 
increase in lease liabilities of $2.5 million and an increase in income taxes payable of $6.6 million. The variance in the current 
liabilities was partially due to the acquisitions of Vend, NuORDER and Ecwid as well as the growth of the Company. Total long-
term liabilities increased by $5.2 million from Fiscal 2021 to Fiscal 2022. The main drivers of this amount were an increase of 
$5.5 million in deferred tax liabilities and an increase in lease liabilities of $2.5 million, offset by a decrease in deferred revenue 
of $0.7 million and a decrease in accrued payroll taxes on share-based compensation of $2.1 million.

(28)

Quarterly Results of Operations

The following table sets forth selected quarterly statements of operations data for each of the eight quarters ended March 31, 2023 
in accordance with IFRS. This data should be read in conjunction with our audited annual consolidated financial statements and 
the notes related thereto. These quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of our operating results for a full year or 
any future period.

(In thousands of US dollars, 
except per share amounts)

Revenues
Direct cost of revenues

Gross profit

Operating expenses
General and administrative
Research and development
Sales and marketing
Depreciation of property and equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
Foreign exchange loss (gain)
Acquisition-related compensation
Amortization of intangible assets
Restructuring
Goodwill impairment

Jun. 30, 
2021
$

Sept. 30, 
2021
$

Three months ended
Jun. 30, 
2022
$

Mar. 31, 
2022
$

Dec. 31, 
2021
$

Sept. 30, 
2022
$

Dec. 31, 
2022
$

Mar. 31, 
2023
$

 115,920   133,218   152,676   146,558   173,882   183,699   188,697   184,228 
  58,347    68,272    73,675    76,905    96,357   102,230   102,691    97,267 

  57,573    64,946    79,001    69,653    77,525    81,469    86,006    86,961 

  22,277    23,081    21,655    28,240    30,239    25,132    28,429    22,139 
  22,216    30,092    32,005    36,837    35,636    36,596    37,405    30,805 
  42,270    51,693    55,308    67,388    68,645    64,337    60,505    56,884 
1,735 
2,025 
297 
5,746 
  17,013    22,797    25,851    26,151    25,876    25,684    25,366    24,620 
1,324    25,549 
— 

1,188   
2,063   
29   
9,032    19,012    20,433    17,103    12,653   

869   
1,625   
249   
2,014   

1,327   
2,109   
(968)  
6,290   

603   
—   748,712   

1,221   
2,047   
443   

1,789   
2,032   
29   

1,020   
2,008   
6   

1,315   
2,078   
327   

1,207   
—   

197   
—   

606   
—   

—   
—   

—   
—   

Total operating expenses

 108,730   139,729   157,551   183,505   182,417   168,285   910,499   169,800 

Operating loss
Net interest income

  (51,157)   (74,783)   (78,550)  (113,852)  (104,892)   (86,816)  (824,493)   (82,839) 
9,654 

4,851   

8,300   

1,014   

1,029   

2,007   

226   

719   

Loss before income taxes

  (50,931)   (74,064)   (77,521)  (112,838)  (102,885)   (81,965)  (816,193)   (73,185) 

Income tax expense (recovery)
Current
Deferred

630   

96   
(2,224)   (15,072)   (12,125)  

95   

282   
1,397   

264   
(2,353)  

516   
(2,538)  

38   
(1,429)  

1,651 
(368) 

Total income tax expense (recovery)

(1,594)   (14,977)   (12,029)  

1,679   

(2,089)  

(2,022)  

(1,391)  

1,283 

Net loss

  (49,337)   (59,087)   (65,492)  (114,517)  (100,796)   (79,943)  (814,802)   (74,468) 

Net loss per share – basic and diluted  

(0.38)  

(0.43)  

(0.44)  

(0.77)  

(0.68)  

(0.53)  

(5.39)  

(0.49) 

Revenues

Our overall revenues continue to grow as we grow our global customer base and increase solution adoption amongst existing 
customers, particularly high GTV customers. Our total quarterly revenue increased successively for all periods presented (except 
for the three month periods ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2023) mainly due to increases in subscription and transaction-
based revenue from existing and new customers, including increased adoption of our payments solutions and other add-ons, as 
well as the acquisitions of Vend, NuORDER and Ecwid. The decrease in revenues in the three month periods ended March 31, 
2022 and March 31, 2023 were primarily due to the impact of seasonality on our revenues as a result of the increased adoption of 
our payments solution, and transaction-based revenues comprising an increasingly larger proportion of our revenue mix. The three 
months ended December 31 is historically our seasonally strongest quarter for transaction-based revenue due to the holiday 
season, while the three months ended March 31 is historically our weakest GTV quarter which caused a sequential decline in our 
revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months 
ended December 31, 2021 and the three months ended December 31, 2022, respectively.

(29)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct Cost of Revenues

Our total direct cost of revenues increased successively for all periods presented (except for the three months ended March 31, 
2023). The aggregate increase within the periods presented was primarily due to increased costs associated with supporting a 
greater number of Customer Locations utilizing our platform, an increase in the number of customers on our payments solutions 
given the higher direct costs associated with transaction-based revenues, as well as the corresponding increase resulting from the 
acquisitions of Vend, NuORDER and Ecwid. The decrease in direct cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2023 
is aligned with the decrease in revenues within the period, and includes a decrease in share-based compensation and $0.8 million 
in savings in salary and other employee-related costs due to the restructuring we announced during the three months ended March 
31, 2023.

Gross Profit

Our total quarterly gross profit increased successively for all periods presented (except for the three months ended March 31, 
2022) as we grow our global customer base and increase solution adoption amongst existing customers, particularly high GTV 
customers. Our gross profit has declined as a percentage of revenue due to the success of our payments solutions as customers 
using these solutions carry higher direct costs compared to our subscription business. We expect this trend to continue in future 
periods, and to be partially offset by the increase in our capital business that carries a significantly higher margin.

Operating Expenses

Total operating expenses increased successively for all periods presented (except for the three months ended June 30, 2022, 
September 30, 2022, and March 31, 2023) primarily due to higher sales and marketing and other costs to support a larger 
customer base, including those from our acquisitions of Vend, NuORDER and Ecwid. The large increase in the three months 
ended December 31, 2022 was due to the goodwill impairment charge taken during the period, which resulted in relatively lower 
operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023. The decrease in operating expenses in the three months ended 
June 30, 2022 was mainly due to a decrease in acquisition-related compensation. The decrease in operating expenses in the three 
months ended September 30, 2022 was mainly due to a decrease in general and administrative expenses related to lower share-
based compensation, salary costs and litigation costs, a decrease in sales and marketing expenses related to lower share-based 
compensation and the costs related to the sales, customer and partner summit incurred during the three months ended June 30, 
2022, and a decrease in acquisition-related compensation. The decrease in operating expenses in the three months ended March 
31, 2023 was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge taken during the previous period, a decrease in share-based 
compensation and salary costs, as well as $5.1 million in savings in salary and other employee-related costs due to the 
restructuring we announced during the three months ended March 31, 2023.

See "Results of Operations" in this MD&A for a more detailed discussion of the year-over-year changes in revenues and net loss.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

The general objectives of our capital management strategy reside in the preservation of our capacity to continue operating, in 
providing benefits to our stakeholders and in providing an adequate return on investment to our shareholders by selling our 
services at a price commensurate with the level of operating risk assumed by us. We thus determine the total amount of capital 
required consistent with risk levels. This capital structure is adjusted on a timely basis depending on changes in the economic 
environment and risks of the underlying assets. We are not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. 

Credit Facility

We had credit facilities with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ("CIBC"), which included a $25 million demand 
revolving operating credit facility (the "Revolver") and a $50 million stand-by acquisition term loan, $20 million of which was 
uncommitted (the "Acquisition Facility", and together with the Revolver, the "Credit Facilities"). The Acquisition Facility was 
drawn for $30 million in January 2020 for the acquisition of Lightspeed POS Germany GmbH (formerly Gastrofix GmbH) and 
was set to mature 60 months thereafter. On July 6, 2022, we repaid in full the balance outstanding under the Acquisition Facility, 
including all accrued and unpaid interest, and the Acquisition Facility was terminated. Prior to the repayment, excluding 
unamortized financing costs, the balance drawn on the Acquisition Facility was $30 million. 

(30)

On October 28, 2022, we amended the Revolver to, among other things, reduce the size of the Revolver to $5 million and 
facilitate greater operating flexibility (the "Amended Revolver"). The Amended Revolver is available for letters of credit or letters 
of guarantee for general corporate and working capital purposes. The Amended Revolver is subject to certain general covenants, 
including making available audited annual consolidated financial statements, and is secured by the material assets of the 
Company. We were in compliance with covenants as at March 31, 2023. 

Working Capital 

Our primary source of cash flow has been from raising capital totaling $2,193 million since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. 
Our approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, to the extent possible, that we always have sufficient liquidity to meet our 
liabilities as they become due. We do so by monitoring cash flows and performing budget-to-actual analysis on a regular basis. 
Our principal cash requirements are for working capital and acquisitions we may execute. Working capital surplus as at March 31, 
2023 was $783.9 million. Given our existing cash, the Amended Revolver and available financing, we believe there is sufficient 
liquidity to meet our current and short-term growth requirements in addition to our long-term strategic objectives. 

Base Shelf Prospectus

On May 18, 2023, pursuant to "well-known seasoned issuer" blanket orders of the Canadian Securities Administrators, we filed a 
new short form base shelf prospectus (the “Base Prospectus”) with the securities commissions in each of the provinces and 
territories of Canada and a corresponding shelf registration statement on Form F-10 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission (the “Registration Statement”). The Base Prospectus and the Registration Statement allows Lightspeed and certain of 
its security holders to offer subordinate voting shares, preferred shares, debt securities, warrants, subscription receipts, units, or 
any combination thereof, in amounts, at prices and on terms to be set forth in one or more shelf prospectus supplements during the 
25-month period that the Base Prospectus is effective. 

Cash Flows

The following table presents cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, and cash flows from or used in operating, 
investing, and financing activities for three months and the fiscal years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022:

(In thousands of US dollars)

Three months ended 
March 31,

Fiscal year ended 
March 31,

2023
$

2022
$

2023
$

2022
$

Cash and cash equivalents

800,154   

953,654 

800,154   

953,654 

Cash flows from (used in):
Operating activities
Investing activities
Financing activities
Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents

(41,587)  
5,953   
(2,376)  
46   

(11,342)   
(199)   
(1,715)   
251 

(125,284)  
8,817   
(35,411)  
(1,622)  

(87,218) 
(563,931) 
798,057 
(404) 

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(37,964)  

(13,005)   

(153,500)  

146,504 

Cash Flows used in Operating Activities

Cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were $41.6 million compared to $11.3 million 
for the three months ended March 31, 2022. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating 
Activities4 were $26.9 million compared to Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities4 of $9.9 million for the three 
months ended March 31, 2022. This $17.0 million increase is primarily due to working capital movements including $12.6 
million of additional merchant cash advances made, a decrease in tax credits received, and timing differences related to current 
receivables and payables.

Cash flows used in operating activities for Fiscal 2023 were $125.3 million compared to $87.2 million for Fiscal 2022. For Fiscal 
2023, Adjusted Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities4 were $96.0 million compared to Adjusted Cash Flows Used in 

4 Refer to the section entitled "Non-IFRS Measures and Ratios and Reconciliation of Non-IFRS Measures and Ratios"

(31)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating Activities4 of $61.3 million for Fiscal 2022. This $34.7 million increase is primarily due to working capital movements 
including $19.2 million of additional merchant cash advances made, a decrease in deferred revenue of $2.5 million, a decrease in 
tax credits received, timing differences related to current receivables and payables, and an increase in cash used in operating 
activities related to our acquisitions of NuORDER and Ecwid, offset by a decrease of $3.8 million in D&O insurance paid related 
to being a public company in the U.S. and an outflow of $5.0 million for a deposit made in Fiscal 2021 in connection with our 
merchant cash advance business, with the same deposit being returned during Fiscal 2022.

Cash Flows from (used in) Investing Activities

Cash flows from investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were $6.0 million compared to cash flows used in 
investing activities of $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The movement in cash flows relating to investing 
activities was primarily due to an increase of $8.1 million in interest income received offset by a decrease of $1.5 million from 
cash outflows associated with capitalized internal development costs related to the Lightspeed B2B network.

Cash flows from investing activities for Fiscal 2023 were $8.8 million compared to cash flows used in investing activities of 
$563.9 million for Fiscal 2022. The movement in cash flows relating to investing activities was primarily due to the cash paid for 
the acquisition of Vend in April 2021, NuORDER in July 2021 and Ecwid in October 2021 and an increase of $17.7 million in 
interest income received offset by a decrease of $3.9 million from cash outflows associated with capitalized internal development 
costs related to the Lightspeed B2B network.

Cash Flows from (used in) Financing Activities

Cash flows used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 were $2.4 million compared to $1.7 million in 
the three months ended March 31, 2022. The movement in cash flows relating to financing activities was mainly due to a decrease 
of $0.2 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options under our equity incentive plans and an increase of $0.6 million 
from the payment of lease liabilities and movement in restricted lease deposits.

Cash flows used in financing activities for Fiscal 2023 were $35.4 million compared to cash flows from financing activities of 
$798.1 million in Fiscal 2022. The movement in cash flows relating to financing activities was mainly due to having raised $789.4 
million in funds in our August 2021 public offering, net of share issuance costs, the repayment of the $30.0 million balance 
outstanding under the Acquisition Facility in July 2022 and a decrease of $12.8 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock 
options under our equity incentive plans.

We believe that our current cash balance, available financing, cash flows from operations and credit available under the Amended 
Revolver are adequate for the Company’s future operating cash needs. 

Contractual Obligations

We have contractual obligations with a variety of expiration dates. The table below outlines our contractual obligations as at 
March 31, 2023:

(In thousands of US dollars)

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

Other long-term liabilities
Lease obligations(1)
Material unconditional purchase obligations(2)

< 1
Year

68,827   

—   

9,723   

32,077   

Payments due by period

1 to 3 
Years

—   

1,026   

14,858   

54,441   

4 to 5 
Years

—   

—   

8,401   

31,000   

>5
Years

—   

—   

6,979   

Total

68,827 

1,026 

39,961 

—   

117,518 

Total contractual obligations

110,627   

70,325   

39,401   

6,979   

227,332 

(1)

Included in the lease obligations are short term leases and variable lease payments for our share of tenant operating expenses and taxes. 
Lease obligations relate primarily to our office space. The lease terms are between one and seven years. See note 13 to the audited annual 
consolidated financial statements for further details regarding leases.

(2) We are subject to non-cancelable service agreements with service providers and payment processors subject to minimum spend 

commitments.

(32)

 
 
 
 
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements, other than low value and short-term leases, and other purchase obligations 
as disclosed under "Contractual Obligations". From time to time, we may be contingently liable with respect to litigation and 
claims that arise in the normal course of operations.

Related Party Transactions

We have no material related party transactions, other than those noted in our audited annual consolidated financial statements.

The executive compensation expense for the top five key management personnel is as follows for Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2022:

(In thousands of US dollars)

Short-term employee benefits and termination benefits

Share-based payments

Fiscal year ended March 31,

2023
$

3,242

20,331

2022
$

2,914

21,251

Total compensation paid to key management personnel

23,573   

24,165 

Financial Instruments and Other Instruments

Credit and Concentration Risk

Generally, the carrying amount of our financial assets in our consolidated balance sheet exposed to credit risk, net of any 
applicable provisions for losses, represents the maximum amount exposed to credit risk. 

Our credit risk is primarily attributable to our cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. We do not require 
guarantees from our customers. Credit risk with respect to cash and cash equivalents is managed by maintaining balances only 
with high credit quality financial institutions. We do not hold any collateral as security.

Due to our diverse customer base, there is no particular concentration of credit risk related to our trade receivables. Moreover, 
balances for trade receivables are managed and analyzed on an ongoing basis to ensure our loss allowance is established and 
maintained at an appropriate amount. 

We maintain a loss allowance for a portion of trade receivables when collection becomes doubtful on the basis described in note 3 
of our audited annual consolidated financial statements. Our allowance for expected credit losses ("ECL") includes forward-
looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment.

In Fiscal 2023, potential effects from uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment on our credit risk have been considered and 
have resulted in an increase to our allowance for ECLs from what the allowance would have been without factoring in these 
effects. We continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions and any resulting impacts on our credit risk.

Liquidity Risk

We are exposed to the risk of being unable to honor our financial commitments by the deadlines set, under the terms of such 
commitments and at a reasonable price. We manage our liquidity risk by forecasting cash flows from operations and anticipated 
investing and financing activities. We have $800.2 million of cash and cash equivalents as well as the Amended Revolver 
available as at March 31, 2023, demonstrating our liquidity and ability to pay financial liabilities as they become due. The 
Company's business, financial condition and operations were not significantly impacted by the failure of Silicon Valley Bank. 
Only de minimis cash and cash equivalent balances were held with Silicon Valley Bank as at March 31, 2023.

Foreign Exchange Risk

We are exposed to foreign exchange risk due to financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies. The main currencies 
which expose us to foreign exchange risk due to financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies are the Canadian dollar, 
the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Australian dollar, the Swiss franc and the New Zealand dollar. We have a policy to 

(33)

 
mitigate our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk by entering into derivative instruments. We have entered into multiple 
foreign exchange forward contracts, which are generally for a term of less than one-year. Our currency pair used for cash flow 
hedges is U.S. dollar / Canadian dollar. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes. The notional principal of 
our foreign exchange contracts was approximately $109.2 million CAD as at March 31, 2023 (March 31, 2022 - $26.0 million 
CAD). 

The following table provides a summary of our foreign exchange exposures, after taking into account relevant foreign exchange 
forward contracts, expressed in thousands of U.S. dollars:

2023

CAD
$

EUR
$

AUD
$

GBP
$

CHF
$

Other
$

Total
$

Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash

3,336   

5,828   

2,078   

1,907   

1,456   

1,537   

16,142 

Trade and other receivables

3,716   

9,004   

8,199   

1,680   

1,074   

1,883   

25,556 

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities

(10,615)   

(8,948)   

(3,604)   

(1,561)   

(1,294)   

(3,333)   

(29,355) 

Other long-term liabilities

Lease liabilities

(231)   

(267)   

(68)   

(119)   

(48)   

(5)   

(738) 

(11,805)   

(3,258)   

(1,870)   

(4,085)   

(866)   

(211)   

(22,095) 

Net financial position exposure

(15,599)   

2,359   

4,735   

(2,178)   

322   

(129)   

(10,490) 

Interest Rate Risk

Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will negatively impact earnings and cash flows. Certain of our cash earns 
interest. Our trade and other receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and lease liabilities do not bear interest. We are 
not exposed to material interest rate risk.

Share Price Risk

Accrued payroll taxes on share-based compensation (social costs) are payroll taxes associated with share-based compensation that 
we are subject to in various countries in which we operate. Social costs are accrued at each reporting period based on inputs 
including, but not limited to, the number of stock options and share awards outstanding, the vesting of the stock options and share 
awards, the exercise price, and our share price. Changes in the accrual are recognized in direct cost of revenues and operating 
expenses. An increase in share price will increase the accrual for social costs, and a decrease in share price will result in a 
decrease in the accrual for social costs, all other things being equal, including the number of stock options and share awards 
outstanding and exercise price remaining constant.

Inflation Risk 

We are subject to inflation risk that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our 
costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through 
price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If inflation 
continues to increase, it will likely affect our expenses, including, but not limited to, increased costs to offer our solutions and 
employee compensation expenses. Furthermore, our customers are also subject to risks associated with inflationary pressures that 
have and may continue to impact their business and financial condition. Such risks include a reduction in consumer spending and 
credit or debit card usage, which would negatively impact our financial performance because the number of transactions 
processed using our payment solutions would decrease, as would the average purchase amount of each transaction.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our audited annual consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the audited annual consolidated financial statements 
and accompanying notes. We review these estimates on an ongoing basis based on management’s best knowledge of current 
events and actions that we may undertake in the future. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Uncertainty about these 
assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or 
liabilities affected in future periods. Key estimates and assumptions are outlined below. Management has determined that we 
operate in a single operating and reportable segment. 

(34)

 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue Recognition

The identification of revenue-generating contracts with customers, the identification of performance obligations, the 
determination of the transaction price and allocations between identified performance obligations, the use of the appropriate 
revenue recognition method for each performance obligation and the measure of progress for performance obligations satisfied 
over time are the main aspects of the revenue recognition process, all of which require the exercise of judgment and use of 
assumptions. We follow the guidance provided in IFRS 15 – Appendix B, Principal versus Agent Considerations for determining 
whether revenue should be recognized based on the gross amount of consideration paid by the customer or the net amount of 
consideration retained by us. This determination is a matter of judgment that depends on the facts and circumstances of each 
arrangement.

Impairment of Non-financial Assets

Our impairment test for goodwill is based on internal estimates of fair value less costs of disposal calculations and uses valuation 
models such as the discounted cash flow model. Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of fair value 
less costs of disposal include an estimated discount rate, terminal value multiple, and estimated revenue growth rate. These 
estimates, including the methodology used, the identification of cash-generating units and allocation of goodwill, can have a 
material impact on the respective values and ultimately the amount of any goodwill impairment. Whenever property and 
equipment, lease right-of-use assets, and intangible assets are tested for impairment, the determination of the assets’ recoverable 
amount involves the use of estimates by management and can have a material impact on the respective values and ultimately the 
amount of any impairment. 

During the three months ended December 31, 2022, there were changes in macroeconomic conditions and our share price and 
market capitalization decreased. This led to the carrying amount of our net assets exceeding our market capitalization as at 
December 31, 2022. This triggered an impairment test to be performed on the Company's goodwill for our Segment, as defined in 
note 3 of the audited annual consolidated financial statements, which is the level at which management monitors goodwill. Our 
test as at December 31, 2022 resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $748.7 million related to goodwill during the three 
months ended December 31, 2022 as the terminal value multiple was negatively impacted by the macroeconomic conditions and 
our share price decrease, and our revenue growth rate was negatively impacted by the macroeconomic impact on our customer's 
sales. 

If the carrying value of our Segment is below our recoverable amount in the future, we may have to recognize further goodwill 
impairment losses in our results of operations in future periods. This could impair our ability to achieve profitability in the future. 
Goodwill is more susceptible to impairment risk if business operating results or economic conditions deteriorate. We reassessed 
as at March 31, 2023 the key assumptions used in the December 31, 2022 test and found no reduction in the terminal value 
multiple, no increase in the discount rate and no decrease in the revenue growth rate. A reduction in the terminal value multiple, 
an increase in the discount rate or a decrease in the revenue growth rate could cause additional impairment in the future. We are 
required to perform our next annual goodwill impairment analysis on December 31, 2023, or earlier should there be a goodwill 
impairment trigger before then. For additional information, refer to note 16 of our audited annual consolidated financial 
statements for Fiscal 2023.

Business Combinations

We follow the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The acquisition method of accounting requires that assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their estimated fair values on the date of a business acquisition. The excess of the 
purchase price over the estimated fair value is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant 
estimates, assumptions, and judgments, especially with respect to intangible assets and contingent consideration. For intangible 
assets, we develop the fair value by using appropriate valuation techniques which are generally based on a forecast of the total 
expected future net discounted cash flows, and key assumptions generally consist of the future performance of the related assets, 
the discount rate, the attrition rate, the royalty rates, and the payments attach rate. Contingent consideration is measured at fair 
value using a discounted cash flow model.

Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets and Current and Deferred Income Taxes and Tax Credits

Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable 
income. We establish provisions based on reasonable estimates for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities. The 
amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of 
tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. 

(35)

Deferred income tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences to the extent it is probable 
that taxable income will be available against which the losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilized. 
Management’s judgment is required to determine the amount of deferred income tax assets that can be recognized, based upon the 
likely timing and the level of future taxable income together with future tax planning strategies. 

Share-Based Compensation

We measure the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the related instruments at the 
date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value for share-based payments requires determining the most appropriate 
valuation model for a grant, which depends on the terms and conditions of the grant. This also requires making assumptions and 
determining the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the option, volatility, interest rate 
and dividend yield.

Provisions

We are involved in litigation and claims from time to time. There can be no assurance that these litigations and claims will be 
resolved without costly litigation nor in a manner that does not adversely impact the financial position and operating results of the 
Company. Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. In determining the probability of a loss and consequently determining a 
reasonable estimate, management is required to use significant judgment. Assumptions applied reflect the most probable set of 
economic conditions and planned courses of action by the Company at the time, but these too may differ over time. Given the 
uncertainties associated with any litigation, the actual outcome can be different from our estimates and could adversely affect the 
financial position and operating results of the Company. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued by the IASB or other standards-setting bodies, and are adopted as 
of the specified effective date. 

New and amended standards and interpretations adopted

The IASB has issued amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment to prohibit deducting from the cost of an item of 
property, plant and equipment any proceeds from selling items produced before that asset is available for use. The amendments 
also clarify the meaning of "testing whether an asset is functioning properly". The IASB also issued an amendment to IAS 37 
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets to clarify the cost of fulfilling a contract in assessing whether a contract 
is onerous. These amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 37 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2022, with 
early application permitted. We have adopted these amendments as of April 1, 2022. There was no impact on our accounting 
policies or the audited annual consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting such amendments. There were no other 
IFRS or International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations effective as of April 1, 2022 that had 
a material impact on our accounting policies or the audited annual consolidated financial statements. 

New and amended standards and interpretations issued not yet effective

At the date of authorization of these financial statements, we have not yet applied the following new and revised IFRS Standards 
that have been issued but are not yet effective. 

The IASB has issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts standardizing how to recognize, measure, present and disclose insurance 
contracts, amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors clarifying how to distinguish 
changes in accounting policies from changes in accounting estimates, amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
requiring companies to disclose their material accounting policy information and amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes requiring 
companies to recognize deferred tax on particular transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal amounts of taxable 
and deductible temporary differences. The new IFRS 17 standard and these amendments to IAS 8, IAS 1 and IAS 12 are effective 
for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2023, with early application permitted. The IASB has also issued amendments 
to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements affecting the presentation of liabilities as current or non-current in the statement of 
financial position and requiring companies to disclose their material accounting policy information and they have also issued 
ammendments to IFRS 16 Leases to include variable payments when measuring a lease liability arising from a sale-and-leaseback 

(36)

transaction. These amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS 16 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2024, with 
early application permitted.

We do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements in future 
periods.

Outstanding Share Information

Lightspeed is a publicly traded company listed under the symbol "LSPD" on both the Toronto Stock Exchange ("TSX") and the 
New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Our authorized share capital consists of (i) an unlimited number of Subordinate Voting 
Shares and (ii) an unlimited number of preferred shares, issuable in series, of which 151,368,643 Subordinate Voting Shares and 
no preferred shares were issued and outstanding as of May 16, 2023.

As of May 16, 2023, there were 521,474 options outstanding under the Company’s Amended and Restated 2012 Stock Option 
Plan, as amended (of which 521,474 were vested as of such date), 8,300,252 options outstanding under the Company’s Third 
Amended and Restated Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Omnibus Plan") (of which 2,890,962 were vested as of such 
date) and 104,167 options outstanding which were issued in compliance with an allowance under the rules of the TSX as 
inducements for executive officers to enter into contracts of full-time employment with the Company ("Inducement Grants") (of 
which 104,167 were vested as of such date). Each such option is or will become exercisable for one Subordinate Voting Share.

As of May 16, 2023, there were 277,433 options outstanding under the ShopKeep Inc. Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Option 
and Grant Plan (of which 276,521 were vested as of such date), which plan the Company assumed on closing of its acquisition of 
ShopKeep on November 25, 2020. Each option is or will become exercisable for one Subordinate Voting Share. 

As of May 16, 2023, there were 75,869 DSUs outstanding under the Company’s Omnibus Plan. Each such DSU will, upon the 
holder thereof ceasing to be a director, executive officer, employee or consultant of the Company in accordance with the Omnibus 
Plan, be settled at the discretion of the board through (a) the delivery of shares issued from treasury or purchased on the open 
market, (b) cash, or (c) a combination of cash and shares.

As of May 16, 2023, there were 5,367,041 RSUs outstanding under the Company’s Omnibus Plan (of which 1,030,451 were 
vested as of such date) and 273 RSUs outstanding which were Inducement Grants (of which 273 were vested as of such date). 
Each such RSU, upon vesting, may be settled at the discretion of the board through (a) the delivery of shares issued from treasury 
or purchased on the open market, (b) cash, or (c) a combination of cash and shares.

As of May 16, 2023, there were 524,310 PSUs outstanding under the Company’s Omnibus Plan (of which none were vested as of 
such date). Each such PSU, upon vesting, may be settled at the discretion of the board through (a) the delivery of shares issued 
from treasury or purchased on the open market, (b) cash, or (c) a combination of cash and shares.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, "DC&P") are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in reports filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission are recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely fashion. The disclosure 
controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is then 
accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management to ensure timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
Management regularly reviews disclosure controls and procedures; however, they cannot provide an absolute level of assurance 
because of the inherent limitations in control systems to prevent or detect all misstatements due to error or fraud. The CEO and 
the CFO, along with management, have evaluated and concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as at  
March 31, 2023 were effective.

Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Management of the Company, under the supervision of the CEO and the CFO, is responsible for establishing and maintaining 
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.

(37)

Management, including the CEO and CFO, have assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial 
reporting in accordance with Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission ("COSO"). Based on this assessment, management, including the CEO and CFO, 
have determined that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as at March 31, 2023.

Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as at March 31, 2023 has been audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their opinion on the audited annual 
consolidated financial statements for March 31, 2023.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The CEO and the CFO have evaluated, or caused to be evaluated under their supervision, whether or not there were changes to its 
internal controls over financial reporting during the period ended March 31, 2023 that have materially affected, or are reasonably 
likely to materially affect the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. No such changes were identified through their 
evaluation.

Limitations of Controls and Procedures

Management, including the CEO and CFO, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial 
reporting, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute assurance that the objectives of 
the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the 
benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they 
cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been prevented 
or detected. These inherent limitations include that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur 
because of simple errors or mistakes. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by 
collusion of two or more people, or by unauthorized override of the control. The design of any system of controls is also based in 
part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in 
achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective 
control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

(38)