# Shopify Inc.
# 来源：Annual MD&A - English.pdf (77572f957a9ad379)

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 

February 16, 2023 

In this Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A"), "we", "us", "our", "Shopify" and "the Company" refer to 
Shopify  Inc.  and  its  consolidated  subsidiaries,  unless  the  context  requires  otherwise.  In  this  MD&A,  we  explain 
Shopify's results of operations for the fourth quarter and the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, 
our  cash  flows  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  December  31,  2022  and  2021,  and  our  financial  position  as  of 
December 31, 2022. You should read this MD&A together with our sets of audited consolidated financial statements 
and the accompanying notes for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020. Additional information 
regarding Shopify, including our 2022 annual information form and our annual report on Form 40-F for the year 
ended December 31, 2022, is available on our website at www.shopify.com, or at www.sedar.com and www.sec.gov.

Our  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  accounting  principles 
generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). All amounts are in U.S. dollars ("USD") except 
where otherwise indicated.

Our MD&A is intended to enable readers to gain an understanding of Shopify’s results of operations, cash flows 
and  financial  position.  To  do  so,  we  provide  information  and  analysis  comparing  our  results  of  operations,  cash 
flows  and  financial  position  for  the  most  recently  completed  fiscal  year  with  the  preceding  fiscal  year.  We  also 
provide  analysis  and  commentary  that  we  believe  will  help  investors  assess  our  future  prospects.  In  addition,  we 
provide  “forward-looking  statements”  that  are  not  historical  facts,  but  that  are  based  on  our  current  estimates, 
beliefs and assumptions and which are subject to known and unknown important risks, uncertainties, assumptions 
and  other  factors  that  could  cause  actual  results  to  differ  materially  from  current  expectations.  Forward-looking 
statements are intended to assist readers in understanding management's expectations as of the date of this MD&A 
and may not be suitable for other purposes. See “Forward-looking Statements” below. 

In  this  MD&A,  references  to  our  “solutions”  means  the  combination  of  products  and  services  that  we  offer  to 
merchants, and references to “our merchants” as of a particular date means the total number of unique shops that 
are paying for a subscription to our platform.

Forward-looking Statements 

This  MD&A  contains  forward-looking  statements  under  the  provisions  of  the  U.S.  Private  Securities  Litigation 
Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the U.S. 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and forward-looking information within the meaning of applicable 
Canadian securities legislation.

In  some  cases,  you  can  identify  forward-looking  statements  by  words  such  as  "aim",  "may",  "will",  "could", 
"expects", "further", "plans", "anticipates", "believes", "potential", "continue", "estimate", or the negative of these 
terms or other similar words. In addition, any statements or information that refer to expectations, beliefs, plans, 
projections,  objectives,  performance  or  other  characterizations  of  future  events  or  circumstances,  including  any 
underlying assumptions, are forward-looking. In particular, forward-looking statements in this MD&A include, but 
are not limited to, statements about:

•

•

•

the  extent  of  the  impact  of  the  novel  coronavirus  ("COVID-19")  on  our  business,  financial
performance, revenues, and results of operations;
our expectation that the majority of Shopify employees will work remotely permanently ("digital-by-
design");
our  plan  to  repurpose  or  reconfigure  our  remaining  office  space  and  potentially  terminate  additional
leases or sublet other spaces;

1

•
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

•

our exploration of new ways to accelerate checkout;
our ability to make it easier for merchants to manage their storefronts via their mobile devices;
the achievement of innovations and enhancements to, and expansion of, our platform and our solutions;
whether a merchant using Shopify will ever need to re-platform;
the continued growth of our app developer, theme designer and partner ecosystem and the effect on the 
growth of our merchant base;
the continued expansion of the number of channels for merchants to transact through;
our plan to continue making investments in our business to drive future growth;
our expectation that we will continue to invest in and optimize Shopify Fulfillment Network to provide 
logistics offering to our merchants; 
our expectation that the acquisition of Deliverr will successfully integrate into our logistics offerings;
our  expectation  that  we  may  experience  more  normalized  growth  in  gross  merchandise  volume 
("GMV") against a more measured macro environment relative to 2020 and 2021, but also expect that 
changed behaviours adopted by merchants and consumers that were driven by COVID-19 will continue 
to expand the prospects for entrepreneurship and digital commerce;
our  expectation  that  the  development  of  Shopify  Fulfillment  Network  will  be  dilutive  to  the  gross 
margin percentage of merchant solutions;
our  expectation  that  the  continued  growth  of  merchant  solutions  may  cause  a  decline  in  our  overall 
gross margin percentage;
our expectation that as a result of the continued growth of our merchant solutions offerings, seasonality 
will continue to affect our quarterly results and our business may become more seasonal in the future, 
and that historical patterns may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance;
our  expectation  that  our  results  of  operations  and  comparability  of  our  quarterly  results  could  be 
impacted by foreign currency fluctuations as our operations continue to expand internationally and that 
our foreign currency hedging program will help to mitigate these fluctuations;
our  expectation  that  as  we  roll  out  local  currency  billing  options  in  geographies  outside  of  North 
America,  a  decrease  in  the  value  of  other  currencies  relative  to  the  USD  will  negatively  impact  our 
reported subscription revenue and Monthly Recurring Revenue ("MRR");
our  expectation  that  over  time,  any  impact  to  MRR  from  local  currency  billing  and  localized  pricing 
will  be  offset  by  reduced  friction  and  an  enhanced  in-market  experience,  which  we  anticipate  will 
attract more merchants to our platform and our merchant solutions;
our  expectation  that  sales  and  marketing  expenses  will  increase  in  absolute  dollars  but  decline  as  a 
percentage of total revenues over time;
our  expectation  that  our  research  and  development  expenses  will  increase  in  absolute  dollars  as  we 
continue to increase the functionality of our platform, but will decline as a percentage of total revenues 
over time; 
our expectation that over time general and administrative expenses will increase on an absolute dollar 
basis,  but  may  decrease  as  a  percentage  of  our  total  revenues  as  we  focus  on  processes,  systems  and 
controls to enable our internal support functions to scale with the growth of our business;
our  expectation  that  transaction  and  loan  losses  related  to  Shopify  Payments,  Shop  Pay  Installments, 
Shopify Balance and Shopify Capital will increase on an absolute dollar basis over time as merchant 
penetration and adoption grow;
our expectation that any short-term impact from the free and paid trial experiences launched in the third 
quarter  of  2022  will  drive  long-term  benefits  in  the  form  of  more  merchants  on  our  platform,  an 
increase in MRR once these cohorts of merchants convert to standard Shopify plans, and increase use 
of our merchant solutions;
our expectation that price increases on standard Shopify plans will result in an increase in MRR;
the change in fair value of certain equity and other investments which may fluctuate period to period, 
and may cause volatility to our earnings;
our  expectation  that  the  overall  trend  of  merchant  solutions  revenue  making  up  an  increasing 
component of total revenues over time, most notably in the fourth quarter due to higher holiday volume, 
will continue over time;
our future obligation to purchase our 0.125% convertible senior notes due 2025 (the "Notes") that are 
outstanding on the occurrence of a fundamental change;

2

•

•
•

•

•
•
•
•

•

our belief that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our current and planned financial obligations over 
the next 12 months;
our future financing requirements and the availability of capital;
the future value of our investment income, in particular as a result of changes in interest rates, fair value 
or due to observable changes in price or impairments;
the  fair  market  value  of  the  Notes  as  a  result  of  changes  in  interest  rates  or  the  price  of  our  Class  A 
subordinate voting shares;
expected credit losses as a result of macroeconomic factors;
our expectations regarding contractual obligations and contingencies;
the impact of inflation on our costs and operations and on our merchants sales;
our  accounting  estimates,  allowances,  provisions,  and  assumptions  made  in  the  preparation  of  our 
financial statements; and
our expectations regarding the impact of recently adopted accounting standards.

The forward-looking statements contained in this MD&A are based on our management’s perception of historic 
trends,  current  conditions  and  expected  future  developments,  as  well  as  other  assumptions  that  management 
believes are appropriate in the circumstances, which include, but are not limited to:

•

•
•
•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

our belief that the near-term costs of reducing our leased footprint and transitioning remaining spaces 
to their future intended purpose will yield longer-term benefits; 
our ability to increase the functionality of our platform;
our ability to offer more sales channels that can connect to the platform;
our  belief  in  the  increasing  importance  of  a  multi-channel  platform  that  is  both  fully  integrated  and 
easy to use;
our  belief  that  an  increasing  awareness  among  buyers  that  Shopify  provides  a  superior  and  secure 
checkout experience is an additional advantage for our merchants;
our  belief  that  commerce  transacted  over  mobile  will  continue  to  grow  more  rapidly  than  desktop 
transactions;
our  ability  to  expand  our  merchant  base,  retain  revenue  from  existing  merchants  as  they  grow  their 
businesses,  and  increase  sales  to  both  new  and  existing  merchants,  including  our  ability  to  retain 
merchants that have moved from physical retail to ecommerce as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic;
our belief that ecommerce growth will proceed at a normalized rate in 2023, supported by continued 
penetration of retail by ecommerce, but impacted by inflationary pressures on our merchants and their 
buyers;
our ability to manage our growth effectively;
our ability to enhance and protect our intellectual property rights;
our belief that our merchant solutions make it easier for merchants to start a business and grow on our 
platform by passing our economies of scale on to merchants;
our  ability  to  develop  new  solutions  to  extend  the  functionality  of  our  platform  and  provide  a  high 
level of merchant service and support;
our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel and to manage our operations in a digital-
by-design model;
our  ability  to  enhance  our  ecosystem  and  partner  programs,  and  the  assumption  that  this  will  drive 
growth in our merchant base, further accelerating growth of the ecosystem;
our belief that our strategic investments and acquisitions will increase our revenue base, improve the 
retention of this base and strengthen our ability to increase sales to our merchants and help drive our 
growth;
our  ability  to  achieve  our  revenue  growth  objectives  while  controlling  costs  and  expenses,  and  our 
ability to achieve or maintain profitability;
our belief that MRR is most closely correlated with the long-term value of our merchant relationships;
our assumptions regarding the principal competitive factors in our markets;
our ability to predict future commerce trends and technology;

3

•

•
•

•

•

•

•

•

•
•
•

our  assumptions  that  higher  margin  solutions  such  as  Shopify  Capital  and  Shopify  Shipping  will 
continue to grow through increased adoption and international expansion;
our expectation that Shopify Payments will continue to expand internationally;
our  expectation  that  Shopify  Fulfillment  Network  will  scale  and  grow  as  we  optimize  our  logistics 
offerings, and we will continue to invest to support this growth;
our  belief  that  our  investments  in  sales  and  marketing  initiatives  will  continue  to  be  effective  in 
growing  the  number  of  merchants  using  our  platform,  in  retaining  revenue  from  existing  merchants 
and in increasing revenues from both;
our ability to develop processes, systems and controls to enable our internal support functions to scale 
with the growth of our business;
our  ability  to  retain  key  personnel,  and  that  the  implementation  of  our  new  employee  compensation 
system, Flex Comp, will further assist in retaining personnel and in attracting new personnel;
our expectation that employee elections for allocating their total compensation reward between cash 
and  stock-based  compensation  may  result  in  the  split  between  these  awards  varying  from  quarter  to 
quarter;
our ability to protect against currency, interest rate, investment, concentration of credit and inflation 
risks;
our assumptions as to our future expenses and financing requirements;
our assumptions as to our critical accounting policies and estimates; and
our assumptions as to the effects of accounting pronouncements to be adopted.

Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations may include, but are not limited 
to,  risks  and  uncertainties  that  are  discussed  in  greater  detail  in  the  "Risk  Factors"  section  of  our  Annual 
Information Form for the year ended December 31, 2022 and elsewhere in this MD&A, including but not limited 
to risks relating to:

sustaining our rapid growth;

•
• managing our growth;
•
•

our potential inability to compete successfully against current and future competitors;
the  security  of  personal  information  we  store  relating  to  merchants  and  their  buyers,  as  well  as 
consumers with whom we have a direct relationship including users of our apps;
our ability to successfully scale, optimize and operate Shopify Fulfillment Network;
a cyberattack or security breach;
our ability to innovate;
our limited operating history in new and developing markets and new geographic regions;
international sales and operations and the use of our platform in various countries;
our current reliance on a few suppliers to provide the technology we offer through Shopify Payments;
the reliance of our growth in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties;
our potential inability to hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel;
our use of a single cloud-based platform to deliver our services;
complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide;
our dependence on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key 
employees;
the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations 
including  the  impact  on  the  global  economy  and  consumer  spending  and  on  our  merchants'  and 
partners' ecosystem;
payments  processed  through  Shopify  Payments,  Shop  Pay  Installments,  or  payments  processed  or 
funds managed through Shopify Balance;
our potential failure to effectively maintain, promote and enhance our brand;
our history of losses and our potential inability to maintain profitability;
serious errors or defects in our software or hardware;
our potential inability to achieve or maintain data transmission capacity;
activities  of  merchants  or  partners  or  the  content  of  merchants'  shops  and  our  ability  to  detect  and 
address unauthorized activity on our platform;

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•

•
•
•
•
•

4

•

•
•
•

•

•

evolving  privacy  laws  and  regulations,  cross-border  data  transfer  restrictions,  data  localization 
requirements  and  other  domestic  or  foreign  regulations  that  may  limit  the  use  and  adoption  of  our 
services;
acquisitions and investments, including strategic investments;
risks associated with Shopify Capital, and offering financing to merchants;
potential  claims  by  third  parties  of  intellectual  property  infringement  or  other  third  party  or 
governmental claims, litigation, disputes, or other proceedings;
our  reliance  on  computer  hardware,  purchased  or  leased,  and  software  licensed  from  and  services 
rendered  by  third  parties,  in  order  to  provide  our  solutions  and  run  our  business,  sometimes  by  a 
single-source supplier;
the impact of worldwide economic conditions, such as economic impacts due to the Russian invasion 
of Ukraine, including the resulting effect on spending by small and medium-sized businesses or their 
buyers;

• manufacturing and supply chain risks;
•

unanticipated changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or 
other tax returns;
being required to collect federal, state, provincial or local business taxes, sales and use taxes or other 
indirect taxes in additional jurisdictions on transactions by our merchants;
the interoperability of our platform with mobile devices and operating systems;
changes  to  technologies  used  in  our  platform  or  new  versions  or  upgrades  of  operating  systems  and 
internet browsers;
our potential inability to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary 
information or prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our technology;
our pricing decisions for our solutions;
our use of open source software;
seasonal fluctuations;
exchange rate fluctuations that may negatively affect our results of operations;
our  dependence  upon  buyers’  and  merchants’  access  to,  and  willingness  to  use,  the  internet  for 
commerce;
provisions of our financial instruments including the Notes; 
our  potential  inability  to  raise  additional  funds  as  may  be  needed  to  pursue  our  growth  strategy  or 
continue our operations, on favorable terms or at all;
our tax loss carryforwards;
ownership of our shares;
our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations;
fluctuations in the fair value of our equity and other investment holdings; and
our concentration of credit risk, and the ability to mitigate that risk using third parties, and the risk of 
inflation.

•

•
•

•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•

Although we believe that the plans, intentions, expectations, assumptions and strategies reflected in our forward-
looking statements are reasonable, these statements relate to future events or our future financial performance, and 
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond our control. If 
one  or  more  of  these  risks  or  uncertainties  occur,  or  if  our  underlying  assumptions  prove  to  be  incorrect,  actual 
results  may  vary  significantly  from  those  implied  or  projected  by  the  forward-looking  statements.  No  forward-
looking  statement  is  a  guarantee  of  future  results.  You  should  read  this  MD&A  and  the  documents  that  we 
reference  in  this  MD&A  completely  and  with  the  understanding  that  our  actual  future  results  may  be  materially 
different from any future results expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements in this MD&A represent our views as of the date of this MD&A. We anticipate 
that subsequent events and developments may cause our views to change. However, while we may elect to update 
these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we have no current intention of doing so except to the 
extent  required  by  applicable  law.  Therefore,  these  forward-looking  statements  do  not  represent  our  views  as  of 
any date other than the date of this MD&A.

5

Fiscal Year 2022 Events

Founder Share

On June 7, 2022, our shareholders approved an update to our governance structure pursuant to a plan of arrangement 
under the Canada Business Corporations Act (the "Arrangement"). Under the terms of the Arrangement, on June 9, 
2022  we  created  a  new  class  of  share,  designated  as  the  Founder  share,  and  issued  such  Founder  share  to  Tobias 
Lütke. The Founder share provides Mr. Lütke with a variable number of votes that, when combined with the Class B 
multiple  voting  shares  (which  are  now  described  as  Class  B  restricted  voting  shares  as  a  result  of  our  updated 
governance structure) beneficially owned by him, his immediate family and his affiliates, will represent 40% of the 
aggregate voting power attached to all of our outstanding shares. 

Share Split

On June 7, 2022, our shareholders approved a ten-for-one split of our Class A subordinate voting shares and Class B 
restricted  voting  shares  ("the  Share  Split").  Each  shareholder  of  record  on  June  22,  2022  received  nine  additional 
Class  A  subordinate  voting  shares  and  Class  B  restricted  voting  shares,  as  applicable,  for  every  one  share  held, 
distributed  after  close  of  trading  on  June  28,  2022.  All  share  and  per  share  amounts  presented  herein  have  been 
retroactively adjusted to reflect the impact of the share split. 

Acquisition of Deliverr, Inc. 

On July 8, 2022, we completed the acquisition of Deliverr, a leading fulfillment technology provider based in San 
Francisco,  California.  With  the  addition  of  Deliverr's  world-class  software,  talent,  data,  and  scale,  our  logistics 
offerings  will  offer  merchants  a  one-stop  shop  for  their  logistics  needs,  from  initial  receipt  of  inventory  to  smart 
distribution, through to fast delivery and easy returns.

Reduction in Workforce 

As  ecommerce  has  reverted  to  a  level  slightly  higher  than  its  pre-COVID  trend,  in  an  effort  to  recalibrate  our 
operations,  we  took  steps  to  streamline  our  workforce  on  July  26,  2022,  reducing  our  total  headcount  by 
approximately  10%.  After  expanding  the  Company  in  anticipation  of  rapid  and  sustained  structural  ecommerce 
market expansion, which has not materialized, we recalibrated to meet the new reality. This one-time reduction in 
workforce has resulted in $30.5 million of severance related costs, all of which is recognized in operating expenses 
in the third quarter of 2022. 

New Employee Compensation System

Beginning  September  1,  2022,  we  launched  our  new  employee  compensation  system  (“Flex  Comp”).  Flex  Comp 
brings agency to our employees by allowing them to decide, subject to the conditions of the system, how much of 
their total compensation reward will be in the form of cash versus stock-based compensation awards, consisting of 
restricted  stock  units  ("RSUs")  and/or  stock  options.  By  allocating  their  total  compensation  reward  to  meet  their 
needs,  employees  also  gain  additional  clarity  around  their  annual  compensation  that  eliminates  complexities 
associated  with  legacy  pay  structures.  As  a  mission-driven  company,  we're  tying  rewards  to  the  mission,  not  the 
market  or  world  events.  As  employees  advance  in  their  careers  and  have  a  positive  impact  on  our  mission,  their 
compensation will grow. Furthermore, as we iterate, we'll bring compensation and our mission even closer. For now, 
we provide our employees with a 5% bonus on any extra equity they choose above the default setting, and in the 
future, we intend to add in additional compensation elements such as charitable donations and Shop Cash.

In September 2022, in connection with the new compensation system, 879,640 options and 2,371,857 RSUs were 
granted while 690,158 options and 10,277,545 RSUs were forfeited, all as a result of employees opting-in to Flex 
Comp. We applied modification accounting resulting in stock-based compensation cost equal to, or greater than, the 
original  grant  date  fair  value  of  the  modified  awards  being  recognized  as  an  operating  expense  over  the  requisite 
service period. The modification did not result in a one-time expense on the date Flex Comp was launched because 

6

none of the requisite service period had been completed as of that date. The majority of our employees were eligible 
and  elected  to  enter  into  Flex  Comp  and  all  previously  granted  but  unvested  stock  options  and  RSUs  of  these 
employees  were  forfeited  in  connection  with  the  new  compensation  system  on  September  1,  2022.  Employee 
elections for allocating their total compensation reward between cash and stock-based compensation currently occur 
on a quarterly basis, which may result in the split between cash and stock-based compensation varying from quarter 
to quarter.

Litigation Contingencies

On  August  31,  2022,  a  jury  in  the  U.S.  District  Court  for  the  District  of  Delaware  returned  a  verdict  finding  that 
Shopify  infringed  three  web  technology  patents  owned  by  Express  Mobile,  Inc.  We  have  challenged  the  verdict 
through post-trial motions and the Plaintiff has moved for interest on the amount of the verdict.

In  regards  to  the  claim  filed  on  December  1,  2021,  involving  five  publishers  of  educational  materials  and  two  of 
their  respective  parent  companies,  the  action  has  been  settled  amicably  between  the  parties,  and  terms  of  the 
settlement agreement are confidential. The case was dismissed with prejudice on October 5, 2022.

We  recorded  a  total  expense,  including  potential  interest,  of  $97.0  million  associated  with  both  litigation  matters, 
which  was  recorded  as  general  and  administrative  expenses  in  the  consolidated  statements  of  operations  and 
comprehensive (loss) income.

Office Impairment

In  December  2022,  we  ceased  use  of  leased  office  space.  This  resulted  in  total  combined  impairment  charges  of 
$84.3 million to our right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements. These impairment charges were determined by 
comparing  the  asset  groups'  fair  values  made  up  of  the  right-of-use  assets  and  leasehold  improvements,  to  their 
carrying values as of the impairment measurement date. Fair value was determined based on the present value of the 
estimated  future  cash  flows.  These  estimates  may  vary  from  the  actual  amounts  due  to  termination  or  sublease 
agreements  ultimately  executed,  if  at  all,  which  may  result  in  an  adjustment  to  the  charges.  These  charges  were 
recorded  as  general  and  administrative  expenses  in  the  consolidated  statements  of  operations  and  comprehensive 
(loss) income.

COVID-19

In  light  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  we  have  continued  to  focus  on  the  health  and  well-being  of  our  employees, 
partners, service providers, and communities. We have also accelerated products that we believe will best serve our 
merchants as they deal with the challenges of COVID-19.

Beginning  in  March  2020,  we  observed  sustained  strong  momentum  in  GMV,  buoyed  by  restrictions  related  to 
COVID-19, as consumers looked for ways to purchase at a safe distance, utilizing ecommerce and benefiting from 
features such as curbside pickup and local delivery. The momentum continued throughout the year ended December 
31, 2021, albeit at a slower pace, as we experienced an increase in GMV relative to the preceding fiscal year. The 
increase was driven by traditional retail businesses expanding or migrating their operations online with our platform 
and services as well as by an increase in the number of merchants using our retail Point-of-Sale ("POS") solutions. 
The COVID-triggered acceleration of ecommerce that spilled into the first half of 2021 in the form of lockdowns 
and  government  stimulus  was  mostly  absent  from  2022  and  macroeconomic  factors  such  as  the  post-pandemic 
consumer spend shift to services and in-person shopping, as well as higher inflationary pressures on our merchants 
and  their  buyers,  are  among  the  main  drivers  of  the  deceleration  of  GMV  growth  in  2022.  We  continued  to 
outperform in the ecommerce market and we moved aggressively to rollout our POS solutions to more merchants in 
more geographies, which increased our market share of offline retail as well. In addition, we believe our ability to 
pass on our economies of scale to our merchants demonstrates that Shopify is the right place to be in an inflationary 
environment. This further highlights the resiliency of the platform and omnichannel we have built over the past 16 
years, and its ability to help entrepreneurs navigate through a variety of economic times. The effect of COVID-19 on 

7

other  aspects  of  our  results  of  operations  and  financial  performance  in  the  long-term,  such  as  revenues,  remains 
uncertain and may only be reflected in future periods.

The effects of COVID-19 have led us to reimagine the way we work resulting in the decision to be a "digital-by-
design"  company.  Shopify  employees  are  working  remotely  and  embracing  this  digital-first  way  of  thinking, 
working,  and  operating  with  the  intention  that  the  majority  of  employees  will  work  remotely  permanently.  We 
believe  the  near-term  costs  of  reducing  our  leased  footprint  related  to  office  space  and  transitioning  them  to  their 
future intended purpose, including use for team collaboration and events, will yield longer-term benefits, including 
leveling the playing field for employees who already work from home, helping our employees stay healthy and safe, 
opening ourselves up to a diverse global talent pool, eliminating unnecessary commutes and fast-tracking new and 
better  ways  to  work  together  that  are  more  productive  and  rewarding.  As  a  result  of  this  decision,  in  the  second 
quarter  of  2020,  the  third  quarter  of  2021  and  the  fourth  quarter  of  2022,  we  decided  we  would  terminate  certain 
lease agreements or seek to sublet space at certain office locations. We continue to assess the ongoing need for the 
remaining offices and may repurpose them to accommodate physical distancing measures, further reconfigure them 
for use in a digital-by-design framework, or look to sublease or terminate the related leases in the future.

Russian Invasion of Ukraine

Shopify paused the collection of fees from its Ukrainian merchants and partners and does not intend to reintroduce 
them for the foreseeable future. We have also temporarily suspended operations in Russia and Belarus. We do not 
have a large financial exposure in any of these countries. We will continue to monitor this situation and comply with 
applicable sanctions as they are announced.

Overview  

Shopify is a leading provider of essential internet infrastructure for commerce, offering trusted tools to start, grow, 
market, and manage a retail business of any size. Shopify makes commerce better for everyone with a platform and 
services  that  are  engineered  for  simplicity  and  reliability,  while  delivering  a  better  shopping  experience  for 
consumers everywhere.  

In an era where social media, cloud computing, mobile devices, augmented reality and data analytics are creating 
new possibilities for commerce, Shopify provides differentiated value by offering merchants:

A multi-channel front end. Our software enables merchants to easily display, manage, market and sell their products 
across over a dozen different sales channels, including web and mobile storefronts, physical retail locations, pop-up 
shops,  B2B,  social  media  storefronts,  native  mobile  apps,  buy  buttons,  and  marketplaces.  More  than  80%  of  our 
merchants  have  installed  two  or  more  channels.  The  Shopify  application  program  interface  ("API")  has  been 
developed to support custom storefronts that let merchants sell anywhere, in any language.

A single integrated back end. Our software provides one single integrated, easy-to-use back end that merchants use 
to manage their business and buyers across these multiple sales channels. Merchants use their Shopify dashboard, 
which is available in 21 languages, to manage products and inventory, process orders and payments, fulfill and ship 
orders,  discover  new  buyers  and  build  customer  relationships,  source  products,  leverage  analytics  and  reporting, 
manage cash, payments and transactions, and access financing.

A data advantage. Our software is delivered to merchants as a service, and operates on a shared infrastructure. This 
cloud-based  infrastructure  not  only  relieves  merchants  from  running  and  securing  their  own  hardware,  it  also 
consolidates  data  generated  by  the  interactions  between  buyers  and  a  merchant's  products,  providing  rich  data  to 
inform merchant decisions. With a highly qualified team of data science personnel, we expect to continue leveraging 
data for the benefit of our merchants with critical safeguards in place to ensure privacy, security and compliance.

8

Shopify  also  enables  merchants  to  build  their  own  brand,  leverage  mobile  technology,  sell  internationally,  and 
handle massive traffic spikes with flexible infrastructure:

Brand ownership. Shopify is designed to help our merchants own their brand, develop a direct relationship with their 
buyers,  and  make  their  buyer  experience  memorable  and  distinctive.  We  recognize  that  in  a  world  where  buyers 
have more choices than ever before, a merchant’s brand is increasingly important. The Shopify platform is designed 
to allow a merchant to keep their brand present in every interaction to build buyer loyalty and create competitive 
advantages.  While  our  platform  is  designed  to  empower  merchants  first,  merchants  benefit  when  buyers  are 
confident that their payments are secure. We believe that awareness among buyers that Shopify provides a superior 
and secure checkout experience is an additional advantage for our merchants in an increasingly competitive market. 
For merchants using Shopify Payments, buyers are already getting a superior experience, with features such as Shop 
Pay and Shop Pay Installments, and with our investments in additional buyer touchpoints, such as retail, shipping, 
fulfillment, and Shop, our all-in-one digital shopping companion app, brands that sell on Shopify can offer buyers an 
end-to-end, managed shopping experience that previously was only available to much larger businesses.

Mobile. As ecommerce expands as a percentage of overall retail transactions, a trend that accelerated in 2020 with 
the onset of the global COVID-19 pandemic buyers expect to be able to transact anywhere, anytime, on any device 
through  an  experience  that  is  simple,  seamless,  and  secure.  As  transactions  over  mobile  devices  represent  the 
majority of transactions across online stores powered by Shopify, the mobile experience is a merchant’s primary and 
most important interaction with online buyers. Shopify has focused on enabling mobile commerce, and the Shopify 
platform  includes  a  mobile-optimized  checkout  system,  designed  to  enable  merchants’  buyers  to  more  easily 
purchase products over mobile websites. Our merchants are able to offer their buyers a quick and secure check-out 
option by using Shop Pay, Apple Pay, Meta Pay, and Google Pay on the web, and we continue to explore other new 
ways to offer payment flexibility and accelerated checkout. Just as Shopify's tools enable brands to sell directly to 
their buyers, the Shop app provides merchants that same direct sales power through a mobile experience. The Shop 
app  is  a  digital  shopping  assistant  that  is  available  to  buyers  on  iOS  and  Android  mobile  devices.  Buyers  use  the 
Shop app to track packages, discover products from their favorite merchants, earn cash back through our rewards 
program,  Shop  Cash,  and  engage  with  brands  directly,  which  helps  merchants  increase  opportunities  to  find  new 
customers and drive greater loyalty and lifetime value of their buyers. Shopify’s mobile capabilities are not limited 
to  the  front  end:  merchants  who  are  often  on-the-go  find  themselves  managing  their  storefronts  via  their  mobile 
devices, and Shopify continues to strive to make it easier to do so.

Global. Commerce thrives when merchants are able to build a global brand and sell beyond their own borders with 
little friction. Shopify offers merchants across several countries a localized experience within the country in which 
they  are  based.  In  addition,  Shopify  Markets,  enables  merchants  to  manage  localized  storefronts  in  different 
countries through one global store, making cross-border commerce easier for entrepreneurs. With Shopify Markets, 
merchants can easily set up market-specific buying experiences, enabling buyers to shop in their local currencies, 
languages,  domains,  and  payment  methods.  Shopify  Markets  also  calculates  duty  and  import  fees.  Such  tailored 
experiences are designed to increase local buyer trust and conversion, enabling merchants to enter new geographies 
more easily. Shopify Markets Pro, introduced in 2022, offers merchants a native merchant-of-record tax and duty 
compliance  solution.  Shopify  Markets  and  Shopify  Markets  Pro  complement  our  partnership  with  Global-E,  an 
offering for merchants who want to fully outsource their cross-border business with an approved third-party partner.

Infrastructure.  We  build  our  platform  to  address  the  growing  challenges  facing  merchants  and  with  the  aim  of 
making  complex  tasks  simple.  The  Shopify  platform  is  engineered  to  enterprise-level  standards  and  functionality 
and designed for simplicity and ease of use. We also design our platform with a robust technical infrastructure able 
to manage large spikes in traffic that accompany events such as new product releases, holiday shopping seasons, and 
flash sales. We are constantly innovating and enhancing our platform, with our continuously deployed, multi-tenant 
architecture ensuring all of our merchants are always using the latest technology.

This  combination  of  ease  of  use  with  enterprise-level  functionality  allows  merchants  to  start  with  a  Shopify  store 
and  grow  with  our  platform  to  almost  any  size.  Using  Shopify,  merchants  may  never  need  to  re-platform.  Our 
Shopify  Plus  subscription  plan  was  created  to  accommodate  larger  merchants,  with  additional  functionality, 

9

scalability and support requirements. The Shopify Plus plan also appeals to larger merchants not already on Shopify 
who  want  to  migrate  from  their  expensive  and  complex  legacy  solutions  to  achieve  greater  functionality  and 
flexibility.

Sustainability

Shopify is a company that wants to see the next century, and has taken many steps to build a sustainable business, 
including becoming a carbon neutral company in 2019. Our commitment includes powering our global operations 
with renewable energy, purchasing high quality carbon credits to address travel-related emissions, and by relying on 
Google Cloud, which is 100% powered by renewable energy. 

Because  we  view  commerce  as  a  powerful  vehicle  for  positive  systemic  change,  as  part  of  our  focus  on  the  long 
term, in 2019 Shopify launched a sustainability fund with the intent to commit at least $5 million annually to fund 
what  Shopify  believes  are  the  most  promising  and  impactful  technologies  and  projects  to  combat  climate  change. 
Since launch, we’ve partnered with 22 entrepreneurial climate companies to help them prove and scale their carbon 
removal  solutions.  In  2022,  we  launched  Frontier,  an  advance  market  commitment,  alongside  Stripe,  Alphabet, 
Meta, and McKinsey Sustainability with the objective to purchase a combined $925M of carbon removal by the end 
of 2030. 2022 was the third consecutive year where Shopify has tracked, calculated, and purchased enough carbon 
removal  to  counteract  the  impact  of  carbon  emissions  from  orders  placed  on  our  platform  over  the  Black  Friday/
Cyber Monday shopping weekend. Our merchants have the ability to address the carbon emissions associated with 
shipping  their  orders  by  adding  our  Planet  app  to  their  store.  We  also  fund  carbon  removal  through  our 
Sustainability Fund with every order placed using Shop Pay, our checkout accelerator. 

Ecosystem 

A rich ecosystem of app developers, theme designers and other partners, such as digital and service professionals, 
marketers, photographers, and affiliates has evolved around the Shopify platform. We believe our partner ecosystem 
helps  drive  the  growth  of  our  merchant  base  by  extending  the  functionality  of  the  Shopify  platform  through  the 
development of apps. At December 31, 2022, more than 10,000 apps were available in the Shopify App Store. The 
partner  ecosystem  helps  drive  the  growth  of  our  merchant  base,  which  in  turn  further  accelerates  growth  of  the 
ecosystem.

Business Overview

Our mission is to make commerce better for everyone, and we believe we can help merchants of nearly all sizes, 
from aspirational entrepreneurs to companies with large-scale, direct-to-consumer operations realize their potential 
at all stages of their business life cycle. While our platform can scale to meet the needs of large merchants, we focus 
on selling to small and medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurs. Most of our merchants are on subscription plans 
that cost less than $50 per month, which is in line with our focus of providing cost effective solutions for early stage 
businesses. In the year ended December 31, 2022, our platform facilitated GMV of $197.2 billion, representing an 
increase of 12.4% from the year ended December 31, 2021. A detailed description of this metric is presented below 
in the section entitled, “Key Performance Indicators”.

During the year ended December 31, 2022, our total revenue was $5,599.9 million, an increase of 21.4% versus the 
year ended December 31, 2021. Our business model has two revenue streams: a recurring subscription component 
we call subscription solutions and a merchant success-based component we call merchant solutions.

In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  subscription  solutions  revenues  accounted  for  26.6%  of  our  total  revenues 
(29.1%  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021).  We  offer  a  range  of  plans  that  increase  in  price  depending  on 
additional features and economic considerations. Our highest-end plan, Shopify Plus, is offered at a starting rate that 
is several times that of our standard Shopify plans. Shopify Plus solves for the complexity of merchants as they grow 
and  scale  globally,  offering  additional  functionality,  and  support,  including  features  like  Shopify  Audiences,  B2B 
ecommerce,  and  Launchpad,  for  ecommerce  automation,  and  dedicated  account  management  where  appropriate. 
Mattel,  Gymshark,  Heinz,  FTD,  Netflix,  Kylie  Cosmetics,  SKIMS  and  Supreme  are  a  few  of  the  Shopify  Plus 

10

merchants seeking a reliable, cost-effective and scalable commerce solution. The flexibility of our pricing plans is 
designed to help our merchants grow in a cost-effective manner and to provide more advanced features and support 
as  their  business  needs  evolve.  We  have  also  launched  localized  pricing  plans  in  select  countries  and  expect  to 
expand the number of markets where we bill in local currency in order to reduce friction and attract more merchants 
to our platform.

Revenue  from  subscription  solutions  is  generated  through  the  sale  of  subscriptions  to  our  platform,  including 
variable platform fees, as well as through the sale of subscriptions to our POS Pro offering, the sale of themes, the 
sale of apps, and the registration of domain names. Subscription solutions revenues increased from $1,342.3 million 
in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021  to  $1,487.8  million  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  representing  an 
increase  of  10.8%.  Our  merchants  typically  enter  into  monthly  subscription  agreements.  The  revenue  from  these 
agreements  is  recognized  over  time  on  a  ratable  basis  over  the  contractual  term  and  therefore  we  have  deferred 
revenue  on  our  balance  sheet.  We  do  not  consider  this  deferred  revenue  balance  to  be  a  good  indicator  of  future 
revenue. Instead, we believe MRR is most closely correlated with the long-term value of our merchant relationships. 
As  of  December  31,  2022,  MRR  totaled  $109.5  million,  representing  an  increase  of  7.3%  relative  to  MRR  at 
December 31, 2021. In the year ended December 31, 2022, both subscription solutions revenue and MRR observed 
slower  growth  rates  due  mainly  to  trial  incentives  launched  in  the  second  half  of  2022  where  select  prospective 
merchants  were  offered  a  paid  trial.  Prospective  merchants  that  join  through  these  trial  incentives  are  included  in 
MRR at their trial price, throughout the trial period, until they convert to a full price subscription plan. These trial 
incentive amounts are immaterial to MRR as at December 31, 2022. Furthermore, when comparing the year ended 
December 31, 2021 to the year ended December 31, 2022, subscription solutions revenue growth was also impacted 
by lower app and theme related revenue as a result of revised pricing terms with developer partners beginning in the 
third quarter of 2021, offset somewhat by platform fees increasing as a percentage of total subscription solutions. A 
detailed  description  of  this  metric  is  presented  below  in  the  section  entitled,  "Key  Performance  Indicators".  As  at 
December 31, 2022, we host millions of merchants on our platform.

We  offer  a  variety  of  merchant  solutions  that  are  designed  to  add  value  to  our  merchants  by  passing  on  our 
economies of scale and augment our subscription solutions. During the year ended  December 31, 2022, merchant 
solutions  revenues  accounted  for  73.4%  of  total  revenues  (70.9%  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021).  We 
principally generate merchant solutions revenues from payment processing fees and currency conversion fees from 
Shopify Payments. Shopify Payments is a fully integrated payment processing service that allows our merchants to 
accept  and  process  payment  cards  online  and  offline.  In  addition  to  payment  processing  fees  and  currency 
conversion  fees  from  Shopify  Payments,  we  also  generate  merchant  solutions  revenue  from  other  transaction 
services,  referral  fees,  advertising  revenue  on  the  Shopify  App  Store,  Shopify  Capital,  Shop  Pay  Installments, 
Shopify Balance, Shopify Shipping, our logistics offerings, non-cash consideration obtained for services rendered as 
part  of  strategic  partnerships,  the  sale  of  POS  hardware,  Shopify  Email  and  Shopify  Markets.  Shopify  Capital  is 
currently available for merchants in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia. Our merchant 
solutions  revenues  are  directionally  correlated  with  the  level  of  GMV  that  our  merchants  process  through  our 
platform.  Merchant  solutions  revenues  increased  from  $3,269.5  million  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021  to 
$4,112.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2022, representing an increase of 25.8%.

Our business model is driven by our ability to attract new merchants, retain revenue from existing merchants, and 
increase sales to both new and existing merchants. Our merchants represent a wide array of retail verticals, business 
sizes, and geographies and no single merchant has ever represented more than five percent of our total revenues in a 
single reporting period. We believe that our future success depends on many factors, including our ability to expand 
our merchant base; localize features for specific geographies; retain merchants as they grow their businesses on our 
platform  and  adopt  more  features;  offer  more  sales  channels  that  connect  merchants  with  their  specific  target 
audience;  develop  new  solutions  to  extend  our  platform’s  functionality  and  catalyze  merchants’  sales  growth; 
enhance  our  ecosystem  and  partner  programs;  provide  a  high  level  of  merchant  support;  hire,  retain  and  motivate 
qualified personnel; and build with a focus on maximizing long-term value.

We have focused on rapidly growing our business and plan to continue making investments to drive future growth. 
We believe that our investments will increase our revenue base, improve the retention of this base and strengthen 

11

our ability to increase sales to our merchants. Building a 100-year company requires a balance between growth and 
profitability, and we maintain a portfolio of investments with varying time horizons. 

Consistent with investing for the long term, in 2019 we began building Shopify Fulfillment Network, a network of 
distributed  fulfillment  centers  across  the  United  States  and  Canada,  to  help  merchants  provide  fast  and  reliable 
delivery to buyers. Since then, we have made significant internal investments as well as strategic acquisitions and 
partnerships with private companies in an effort to accelerate the development of our logistics offerings. On July 8, 
2022,  we  acquired  Deliverr,  a  leading  fulfillment  technology  provider  with  the  goal  of  leveraging  Deliverr’s 
software in our hub and spoke warehouses to provide merchants with simplified logistics by simplifying the end-to-
end supply chain across freight, distribution, and fulfillment. Furthermore, our investments in our logistics offerings 
are expected to help accelerate the expansion of Shop Promise, our buyer-facing badge that shows up in merchant 
storefronts  and  in  the  Shop  app,  and  helps  merchants  guarantee  faster,  more  reliable  delivery.  This  solution  uses 
real-time  data  to  predict  the  perfect  delivery  promise  for  every  order,  and  is  automatically  enabled  in  100%  of 
Shopify  Fulfillment  Network  merchant  storefronts.  We  expect  to  continue  to  invest  in  and  optimize  our  logistics 
offerings to further support our merchants.

Key Performance Indicators 

Key  performance  indicators,  which  we  do  not  consider  to  be  non-GAAP  measures,  that  we  use  to  evaluate  our 
business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections and make 
strategic  decisions  include  Monthly  Recurring  Revenue  ("MRR")  and  Gross  Merchandise  Volume  ("GMV").  Our 
key performance indicators may be calculated in a manner different than similar key performance indicators used by 
other companies. 

The following table shows MRR and GMV for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.

Monthly Recurring Revenue

Gross Merchandise Volume

Monthly Recurring Revenue 

Years ended December 31,

2022

2021

(in thousands)

$ 

$ 

109,510 

197,166,882 

$ 

$ 

102,022 

175,361,814 

We calculate MRR at the end of each period by multiplying the number of merchants who have subscription plans 
with us at the period end date by the average monthly subscription plan fee, which excludes variable platform fees, 
in  effect  on  the  last  day  of  that  period,  assuming  they  maintain  their  subscription  plans  the  following  month. 
Subscription plans to both our platform and our POS Pro offering are included in this calculation. When applicable, 
MRR relating to subscription plans billed in a merchant's local currency is converted to USD using the respective 
currency  exchange  rate  as  of  the  period  end  date.  Prospective  merchants  that  have  joined  the  platform  through 
special  new  merchant  trial  incentives  are  included  in  MRR  at  their  trial  price  while  merchants  on  free  trials  are 
excluded from the calculation of MRR through the duration of the free trial. MRR allows us to average our various 
pricing plans and billing periods into a single, consistent number that we can track over time. We also analyze the 
factors  that  make  up  MRR,  specifically  the  number  of  paying  merchants  using  our  platform  and  changes  in  our 
average  revenue  earned  from  subscription  plan  fees  per  paying  merchant.  In  addition,  we  use  MRR  to  forecast 
monthly, quarterly and annual subscription plan revenue, which makes up the majority of our subscription solutions 
revenue. We had $109.5 million of MRR as at December 31, 2022 compared to $102.0 million as at December 31, 
2021.  In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  we  observed  a  lower  MRR  growth  rate,  relative  to  the  year  ended 
December 31, 2021. The MRR growth rate in the year ended December 31, 2022 was impacted by trial incentives 
launched  in  the  second  half  of  2022  where  select  prospective  merchants  were  offered  a  paid  trial.  These  trial 
incentive amounts are immaterial to MRR as at December 31, 2022, but we expect to see an increase in MRR once 
these cohorts of merchants convert to standard Shopify plans and when standard Shopify plan prices are increased in 
the  first  half  of  2023.  Furthermore,  in  the  second  quarter  of  2022,  we  launched  localized  pricing  plans  in  select 

12

countries and we expect to expand the number of markets where we bill in local currency. We expect that over time 
any impact to MRR will be more than offset by the fact that the reduced friction and enhanced in-market experience 
will attract more merchants to our platform who make use of our merchant solutions. The MRR growth rate for the 
year ended December 31, 2021, when compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, was also impacted due to an 
elevated number of full-priced merchants joining the platform in the early stages of 2021 amid further COVID-19 
related  impacts,  such  as  newly  discovered  variants  and  increased  lockdowns,  which  further  energized  the  shift  to 
ecommerce. 

Gross Merchandise Volume 

GMV  is  the  total  dollar  value  of  orders  facilitated  through  our  platform  including  certain  apps  and  channels  for 
which  a  revenue-sharing  arrangement  is  in  place  in  the  period,  net  of  refunds,  and  inclusive  of  shipping  and 
handling, duty and value-added taxes. GMV does not represent revenue earned by us. However, the volume of GMV 
facilitated through our platform is an indicator of the success of our merchants and the strength of our platform. Our 
merchant solutions revenues are also directionally correlated with the level of GMV facilitated through our platform. 
For  the  years  ended  December  31,  2022  and  2021,  we  facilitated  GMV  of  $197.2  billion  and  $175.4  billion, 
respectively.  In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021,  we  experienced  elevated  GMV,  most  notably  in  the  first  two 
quarters of 2021, coming off the tailwinds of the shift to ecommerce accelerated by COVID-19 in 2020, along with 
additional  drivers  in  the  form  of  lockdowns  and  government  stimulus,  which  has  impacted  the  year-over-year 
growth  in  GMV.  Going  forward,  we  expect  more  normalized  growth  in  GMV  against  a  more  measured  macro 
environment  relative  to  2021  as  a  result  of  post-pandemic  consumer  spend  shifting  to  services  and  in-person 
shopping, as well as inflationary pressures on our merchants and their buyers. However, we also expect that changed 
behaviours adopted by merchants and consumers in 2020 and 2021 driven by COVID-19 will continue to expand the 
prospects for entrepreneurship and digital commerce. 

Factors Affecting the Comparability of Our Results 

Change in Revenue Mix 

As  a  result  of  the  continued  growth  of  Shopify  Payments,  revenue-sharing  agreements,  transaction  fees,  Shopify 
Shipping, Shopify Capital, our logistics offerings, and non-cash consideration obtained for services rendered as part 
of  strategic  partnerships,  our  revenues  from  merchant  solutions  have  generally  increased  significantly.  Merchant 
solutions  are  intended  to  complement  subscription  solutions  by  providing  additional  value  to  our  merchants  and 
increasing  their  use  of  our  platform.  Gross  profit  margins  on  Shopify  Payments,  the  biggest  driver  of  merchant 
solutions  revenue,  are  typically  lower  than  on  subscription  solutions  due  to  the  associated  third-party  costs  of 
providing this solution. We view this revenue stream as beneficial to our operating margins, as Shopify Payments 
requires  significantly  less  sales  and  marketing  and  research  and  development  expense  than  Shopify’s  core 
subscription  business.  We  expect  the  development  of  our  logistics  offerings  to  be  dilutive  to  the  gross  margin 
percentage  for  merchant  solutions  in  the  short  term.  The  lower  margins  on  merchant  solutions  compared  to 
subscription  solutions  means  that  the  continued  growth  of  merchant  solutions  may  cause  a  decline  in  our  overall 
gross margin percentage.

Seasonality 

Our merchant solutions revenues are directionally correlated with the level of GMV that our merchants facilitated 
through our platform. Our merchants typically process additional GMV during the fourth quarter holiday season. As 
a  result,  we  have  historically  generated  higher  merchant  solutions  revenues  in  our  fourth  quarter  than  in  other 
quarters.  While  we  believe  that  this  seasonality  has  affected  and  will  continue  to  affect  our  quarterly  results,  our 
rapid  growth  has  largely  masked  seasonal  trends  to  date.  As  a  result  of  the  continued  growth  of  our  merchant 
solutions offerings, we believe that our business may become more seasonal in the future and that historical patterns 
in our business may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. 

13

Foreign Currency Fluctuations 

While the majority of our revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses are denominated in USD, a significant 
portion  are  denominated  in  foreign  currencies.  Due  to  offering  Shopify  Payments,  Shopify  Capital,  subscriptions, 
and  other  billings  to  select  countries  in  local  currency,  a  significant  proportion  of  revenue  transactions  are 
denominated in British pound sterling ("GBP"), Euros ("EUR"), and Canadian dollars ("CAD"). As our operations 
continue  to  be  heavily  weighted  in  CAD  and  as  operations  continue  to  expand  internationally,  a  significant 
proportion  of  operating  expenses  are  also  incurred  in  the  aforementioned  foreign  currencies.  To  help  mitigate  the 
impacts associated with foreign currency fluctuations on future cash flows from operating expenses, we maintain a 
portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts and options designated as hedging instruments. As our operations 
continue to expand internationally, we may be exposed to additional fluctuations in other foreign currencies. Refer 
to the "Risks and Uncertainties—Foreign Currency Exchange Risk" section below for additional information on the 
effect on reported results of changes in foreign exchange rates.

Key Components of Results of Operations 

Revenues 

We derive revenues from subscription solutions and merchant solutions. 

Subscription Solutions 

We principally generate subscription solutions revenues through the sale of subscriptions to our platform, including 
variable  platform  fees,  as  well  as  through  the  sale  of  subscriptions  to  our  POS  Pro  offering.  We  also  generate 
associated subscription solutions revenues from the sale of themes, apps, and the registration of domain names. 

We offer subscription plans with various price points, from entry level plans to Shopify Plus, a plan for merchants 
with  higher-volume  sales  that  offers  additional  functionality,  scalability  and  support.  Our  subscription  plans 
typically have a one-month term, although a small number of our merchants have annual or multi-year subscription 
terms.  Subscription  terms  automatically  renew  unless  notice  of  cancellation  is  provided  in  advance.  Merchants 
purchase subscription plans directly from us. Subscription fees for all plans, except Shopify Plus, are paid to us at 
the start of the applicable subscription period, regardless of the length of the subscription period. Shopify Plus plans 
are billed in arrears. For subscription fees that are received in advance of providing the related services, we record 
deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheet for the unearned revenue and recognize revenue over time on a 
ratable basis over the contractual term. These subscription fees are non-refundable. Revenues from variable platform 
fees are based on the merchants' volume of sales and recognized as revenue when we have a right to invoice. They 
are  classified  within  subscription  solutions  because  they  represent  a  variable  component  of  the  merchants' 
subscription fee.

We  also  generate  additional  subscription  solutions  revenues  from  merchants  that  have  subscription  plans  with  us 
through the sale of themes, apps, and the registration of domain names. Revenues from the sale of themes and apps 
are recognized at the time of the transaction. The right to use domain names is sold separately and is recognized on a 
ratable  basis  over  the  contractual  term,  which  is  typically  an  annual  term.  Revenues  from  the  sale  of  apps  and 
themes are recognized net of amounts attributable to the third-party developers. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we 
commenced recognizing revenue for the sale of themes on a net basis (as an agent) as a result of revised contract 
terms with our theme partners. Prior to this date, revenue from the sale of themes was recognized on a gross basis. 
Revenues  from  the  sale  of  themes,  apps,  and  the  registration  of  domain  names  have  been  classified  within 
subscription solutions on the basis that they are typically sold at the time the merchant enters into the subscription 
arrangement or because they are charged on a recurring basis. 

Merchant Solutions 

We generate merchant solutions revenues from payment processing fees and currency conversion fees from Shopify 
Payments,  transaction  fees,  referral  fees  from  partners,  advertising  revenue  on  the  Shopify  App  Store,  Shopify 

14

Capital, Shop Pay Installments, Shopify Balance, Shopify Shipping, our logistics offerings, non-cash consideration 
obtained  for  services  rendered  as  part  of  strategic  partnerships,  the  sale  of  POS  hardware,  Shopify  Email  and 
Shopify Markets.

 The  significant  majority  of  merchant  solutions  revenues  are  generated  from  Shopify  Payments.  Revenue  from 
processing  payments  and  currency  conversion  is  recognized  at  the  time  of  the  transaction.  For  Shopify  Payments 
transactions, processing payment fees are determined based in part on a percentage of the dollar amount processed 
plus a per transaction fee, where applicable. Currency conversion fees are determined based on a percentage of the 
dollar amount converted in a payment processing transaction, where applicable.

For subscription plans where the merchant does not sign up for Shopify Payments, we typically charge a transaction 
fee based on a percentage of GMV sold through the platform. We bill our merchants for transaction fees at the end 
of a 30-day billing cycle or when predetermined billing thresholds are surpassed. Any fees that have not been billed 
are accrued as an unbilled receivable at the end of the reporting period. 

We also generate merchant solutions revenues in the form of referral fees from partners to which we direct business 
and  with  which  we  have  an  arrangement  in  place.  Pursuant  to  terms  of  the  agreements  with  our  partners,  these 
revenues  can  be  recurring  or  non-recurring.  Where  the  agreement  provides  for  recurring  payments  to  us,  we 
typically earn revenues so long as the merchant that we have referred to the partner continues to use the services of 
the partner. Non-recurring revenues generally take the form of one-time payments that we receive when we initially 
refer  the  merchant  to  the  partner.  In  either  case,  we  recognize  referral  revenues  when  we  are  entitled  to  receive 
payment from the partner pursuant to the terms of the underlying agreement. 

Advertising  revenue  is  earned  on  the  Shopify  App  Store  as  merchants  click  on  the  apps  being  advertised  by  our 
partners. We recognize advertising revenues when we are entitled to receive payment from the partner.

Shopify  Capital,  a  merchant  cash  advance  ("MCA")  and  loan  program  for  eligible  merchants,  is  offered  in  the 
United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia to help eligible merchants secure financing and accelerate 
the  growth  of  their  business  by  providing  access  to  simple,  fast,  and  convenient  working  capital.  We  apply 
underwriting criteria prior to purchasing the eligible merchant's future receivables or making a loan to help assess 
collectibility.  Under Shopify Capital, we purchase a designated amount of future receivables at a discount or make a 
loan. The advance, or the loan, is forwarded to the merchant at the time the related agreement is entered into, and the 
merchant  remits  a  fixed  percentage  of  their  daily  sales  until  the  outstanding  balance  has  been  remitted.  Certain 
merchant cash advances and loans are facilitated internally and originated by a bank partner, from whom we then 
purchase the merchant cash advances and loans obtaining all rights, title, and interest or discount for a fee calculated 
as  a  percentage  of  the  merchant  cash  advance  or  loan's  principal.  Revenues  for  Shopify  Capital  are  earned  in 
accordance with the description below and are presented net of any deferred origination fees which are amortized 
over the contractual or expected term of the MCA or loan. For Shopify Capital MCAs, we apply a percentage of the 
remittances collected against the merchant's receivable balance, and a percentage, which is related to the discount, as 
merchant  solutions  revenue.  For  certain  Shopify  Capital  loans,  there  is  a  fixed  maximum  repayment  term.  For 
certain other Shopify Capital loans, we calculate an expected repayment date. Using the merchant's contractual or 
expected  repayment  date,  we  calculate  an  effective  interest  rate  based  on  the  merchant's  expected  future  payment 
volume to determine how much of a merchant's repayment to recognize as revenue and how much to apply against 
the merchant's receivable balance. We have mitigated some of the risks associated with Shopify Capital by opening 
insurance  policies  with  Export  Development  Canada  (“EDC”)  to  insure  some  of  the  MCAs  and  loans  offered  by 
Shopify  Capital  in  the  United  States,  the  United  Kingdom,  Canada,  and  Australia.  Refer  to  the  "Risks  and 
Uncertainties—Concentration of Credit Risk" section below for additional information on these policies.

Shop Pay Installments, a "buy now pay later" product, enables merchants to sell their goods to buyers on payment 
options  ranging  from  interest-free  biweekly  payments  to  monthly  simple  interest-bearing  installments.  Merchants 
will  receive  upfront  payment  for  a  sale,  net  of  fees,  without  the  worry  associated  with  collecting  future  payments 
from the buyer. Revenues earned from Shop Pay Installments are recognized when a merchant makes a sale using 
this product, and is based on a percentage of the total order value. We earn and recognize a portion of the revenue 

15

from each merchant sale, with the majority of revenue earned and recognized by our third-party provider that bears 
the buyer underwriting and buyer credit risk associated with the product. 

Shopify Balance, our money management product, offers merchants a no fee money management account with fast 
access to their cash, a card for spending online, on mobile, or in store, and rewards featuring cash back, perks, and 
discounts on everyday business spending. We recognize revenue at the time of the transaction as the card is used, 
with cash back rewards earned through the program netted against revenue.  

Shopify  Shipping  allows  merchants  doing  their  own  fulfillment  and  shipping  to  select  from  available  shipping 
partners to buy and print outbound and return shipping labels and track orders directly within the Shopify platform. 
We bill our merchants when they have purchased shipping labels in excess of predetermined billing thresholds, and 
any  charges  that  have  not  been  billed  are  accrued  as  unbilled  receivables  at  the  end  of  the  reporting  period.  For 
Shopify  Shipping,  fees  are  determined  based  on  the  type  of  labels  purchased  or  the  arrangement  negotiated  with 
third  parties.  We  recognize  revenue  from  Shopify  Shipping  net  of  shipping  costs,  as  we  are  the  agent  in  the 
arrangement with merchants. 

Shopify  Fulfillment  Network  and  Deliverr  fulfillment  services,  generate  revenue  from  their  respective  fulfillment 
solutions,  which  include  picking,  packing  and  preparing  orders  for  shipment,  and  outbound  shipping,  as  well  as 
additional  revenues  from  inbound  shipping,  storage,  returns  processing,  and  other  fulfillment-related  services  as 
needed  by  merchants.  Revenue  related  to  these  fulfillment  solutions  is  recognized  over  time  as  we  fulfill,  up  to 
completion of delivery. Revenues related to the inbound, storage and return processing offerings are recognized over 
time, and revenues related to other fulfillment-related services are recognized at a point in time, once the services 
have  been  rendered.  We  also  earn  revenues  from  providing  cloud-based  software  on  collaborative  warehouse 
fulfillment  solutions  which  are  recognized  over  time,  over  the  contractual  term,  which  can  be  up  to  five  years. 
Payments received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably 
over time, over the requisite service period.

From time to time, we receive non-cash consideration in the form of equity investments from customers with whom 
we have developed strategic partnerships. The non-cash consideration is measured as the fair value at the inception 
of  the  contract,  and  any  changes  in  fair  value  after  contract  inception  are  excluded  from  revenue,  and  classified 
within "other (expense) income, net" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive (loss) income. 
As  we  are  contractually  required  to  provide  referral  services  and  other  services  to  support  the  partners'  merchant 
offerings over the period of the performance obligations, revenue is deferred and recognized over time on a ratable 
basis over the expected terms of the contracts, which are typically three to seven years in length.

In  connection  with  Shopify  POS,  a  sales  channel  that  lets  merchants  sell  their  products  and  accept  payments  in-
person from a mobile device, we sell Shopify branded hardware products and other compatible products which are 
sourced from third-party vendors. We recognize revenues from the sale of POS hardware when title passes to the 
merchant in accordance with the shipping terms of the sale. 

Shopify Email, launched in 2019, is our native email marketing tool designed to enable merchants to create, run, and 
track email marketing campaigns from within the merchant admin, and help merchants to build direct relationships 
with  buyers.  Revenue  from  Shopify  Email  is  based  on  the  merchants'  volume  of  emails  sent  and  recognized  as 
revenue when we have a right to invoice.

Shopify Markets, our end-to-end cross-border commerce product offerings launched in 2021, integrate services to 
centralize  the  platform's  cross-border  capabilities  and  enable  merchants  to  penetrate  the  global  commerce  market. 
Shopify Markets leverage our existing transactional services and partnerships from which we earn referral fees to 
provide  a  tailored  experience  for  each  market.  Revenues  earned  are  recognized  in  accordance  with  the  preceding 
paragraphs. 

For a discussion of how we expect seasonal factors to affect our merchant solutions revenue, see “Factors Affecting 
the Comparability of our Results—Seasonality.”

16

Cost of Revenues 

Cost of Subscription Solutions 

Cost of subscription solutions consists primarily of costs associated with billing processing fees and operations and 
merchant  support  expenses.  Operations  and  merchant  support  expenses  include  third-party  infrastructure,  hosting 
costs  and  other  direct  costs,  personnel-related  costs  directly  associated  with  operations  and  merchant  support, 
including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets, and 
allocated  overhead.  Overhead  associated  with  information  technology  and  depreciation  is  allocated  to  our  cost  of 
revenues and operating expenses based on headcount. 

Additionally,  cost  of  subscription  solutions  includes  costs  we  are  required  to  pay  to  third-party  developers  in 
connection with sales of themes. Our paid themes are primarily designed by third-party developers who earn fees for 
each  theme  sold.  In  the  fourth  quarter  of  2021,  we  changed  from  being  the  principal  in  the  arrangement  with 
customers for the sale of themes to being the agent in these arrangements as a result of revised contract terms with 
its  partners.  As  a  result,  beginning  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2021,  the  costs  associated  with  the  sale  of  themes  is 
recognized net within subscription solutions revenue. 

Also included as cost of subscription solutions are domain registration fees. 

We expect that the cost of subscription solutions will increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in growing 
our  business,  and  as  the  number  of  merchants  utilizing  the  platform  increases  along  with  the  costs  of  supporting 
those  merchants.  Over  time,  we  expect  that  our  subscription  solutions  gross  margin  percentage  will  fluctuate 
modestly based on the mix of subscription plans that our merchants select and the timing of expenditures related to 
infrastructure expansion projects. 

Cost of Merchant Solutions 

Cost of merchant solutions primarily consists of costs that we incur when transactions are processed using Shopify 
Payments,  such  as  credit  card  network  fees  (charged  by  credit  card  providers  such  as  Visa,  MasterCard  and 
American Express) as well as third-party processing fees. Cost of merchant solutions also consists of credit card fees 
related to billing our merchants, product costs associated with expanding our product offerings, including Shopify 
Balance,  third-party  infrastructure  and  hosting  costs,  and  operations  and  merchant  support  expenses,  including 
personnel-related  costs  directly  associated  with  merchant  solutions  such  as  salaries,  benefits  and  stock-based 
compensation, as well as allocated overhead. Overhead associated with information technology and depreciation is 
allocated to our cost of revenues and operating expenses based on headcount. 

Cost of merchant solutions also includes amortization of acquired intangible assets relating mostly to the acquired 
Deliverr and 6RS technology. In addition, we incur costs associated with picking, packing and preparing orders for 
shipment, outbound shipping, warehouse storage, overhead costs and other costs for fulfillment-related services as 
part of our logistics offerings, and materials and third-party manufacturing costs associated with fulfillment robots 
sold to customers rather than leased to customers, which are capitalized and depreciated into cost of revenues; costs 
associated with POS hardware, such as the cost of acquiring the hardware inventory, including hardware purchase 
price and expenses associated with our use of a third-party fulfillment company, shipping and handling; and cash 
back earned through our rewards program.

We expect that the cost of merchant solutions will increase in absolute dollars in future periods as the number of 
merchants utilizing these solutions increases, resulting in a growth in volumes processed. We also expect additional 
increases as we continue to expand Shopify Payments internationally and as we continue to invest in our logistics 
offerings. While in development, we expect our logistics offerings to be dilutive to the gross margin percentage for 
merchant solutions.

17

Operating Expenses 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales  and  marketing  expenses  consist  primarily  of  marketing  programs,  partner  referral  payments  related  to 
merchant  acquisitions,  costs  associated  with  partner  and  developer  conferences,  employee-related  expenses  for 
marketing, business development and sales, as well as the portion of merchant support required for the onboarding 
of prospective new merchants. Other costs within sales and marketing include travel-related expenses and corporate 
overhead allocations. Costs to acquire merchants are expensed as incurred, however, contract costs associated with 
Plus merchants are amortized over the expected life of their relative contract. We plan to continue to expand sales 
and marketing efforts to attract new merchants, retain revenue from existing merchants and increase revenues from 
both new and existing merchants. Sales and marketing expenses are expected to increase in absolute dollars but over 
time, we expect sales and marketing expenses will eventually decline as a percentage of total revenues.

Research and Development 

Research  and  development  expenses  consist  primarily  of  employee-related  expenses  for  product  management, 
product development, product design, data analytics, contractor and consultant fees as well as internal use hosting 
costs and corporate overhead allocations. Research and development costs are generally expensed as incurred. We 
capitalize certain development costs incurred in connection with our internal use software as well as costs related to 
specific  upgrades  and  enhancements  when  technological  feasibility  is  reached.  We  continue  to  focus  our  research 
and development efforts on adding new features and solutions, and increasing the functionality and enhancing the 
ease of use of our platform. While we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as 
we  continue  to  increase  the  functionality  of  our  platform,  over  the  long  term  we  expect  our  research  and 
development expenses will eventually decline as a percentage of total revenues. 

General and Administrative 

General  and  administrative  expenses  consist  of  employee-related  expenses  for  finance  and  accounting,  legal, 
administrative, human relations and IT personnel, impairment related to certain office leases we have ceased using, 
professional  services  fees,  sales  and  use  and  other  value  added  taxes,  insurance,  the  provision  for  expected  credit 
losses  on  uncollectible  receivables,  corporate  overhead  allocations,  legal  contingencies  and  other  corporate 
expenses, including sustainability spend. We expect that over time general and administrative expenses will increase 
on an absolute dollar basis but may decrease as a percentage of total revenues as we focus on processes, systems and 
controls to enable our internal support functions to scale with the growth of our business.

Transaction and Loan Losses

Transaction  and  loan  losses  consist  of  expected  and  actual  losses  related  to  Shopify  Payments,  Shop  Pay 
Installments,  Shopify  Balance,  and  Shopify  Capital.  We  are  exposed  to  transaction  losses  on  Shopify  Payments, 
Shop  Pay  Installments,  and  Shopify  Balance  as  a  result  of  unrecovered  merchant  transactions  due  to  returns  and 
disputes.  We  are  also  exposed  to  Shopify  Balance  losses  when  a  merchant  account  experiences  unauthorized 
transactions where funds cannot be recovered or reversed. We are exposed to transaction losses on merchant cash 
advances  offered  through  Shopify  Capital  as  a  result  of  fraud  or  uncollectibility.  We  provide  for  loan  losses 
whenever the amortized cost of loans exceeds their fair value. Transaction and loan losses are expected to increase in 
absolute dollars over time as merchant penetration and adoption grow. 

 Other (Expense) Income

Other  (expense)  income  consists  primarily  of  unrealized  and  realized  gains  or  losses  on  equity  and  other 
investments,  transaction  gains  or  losses  on  foreign  currency,  interest  income,  and  interest  expense  related  to  the 
Notes. Equity and other investments in publicly traded companies with readily determinable fair values are carried at 
fair value at each balance sheet date based on the closing share price at the end of the period and any movements in 
the  fair  value  are  recognized  into  other  (expense)  income.  Equity  and  other  investments  in  private  companies 

18

 
without  readily  determinable  fair  values  are  carried  at  cost  less  impairments,  with  subsequent  adjustments  for 
observable changes (referred to as the measurement alternative). We also hold investments in convertible notes of 
private  companies  which  are  classified  as  available-for-sale  debt  securities,  which  we  have  elected  to  account  for 
under the fair value option. The investments are carried at fair value at each balance sheet date and any movements 
in the fair value are recognized in other (expense) income. The results from these equity investments may fluctuate 
from period to period and may cause volatility to our earnings as well as impact comparability of our results from 
period to period.

19

Results of Operations 

The  following  table  sets  forth  our  consolidated  statement  of  operations  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2022, 
2021, and 2020.

Years ended December 31,

2022

2021
(in thousands, except share and per share data)

2020

Revenues:

Subscription solutions
Merchant solutions

Cost of revenues(5)(6):

Subscription solutions
Merchant solutions

Gross profit
Operating expenses:

Sales and marketing(3)(5)(6)
Research and development(3)(5)(6)
General and administrative(2)(3)(4)(5)
Transaction and loan losses

Total operating expenses
(Loss) income from operations
Other (expense) income, net
(Loss) income before income taxes
Recovery of (provision for) income taxes
Net (loss) income

Net (loss) income per share attributable to shareholders(1):

Basic

Diluted

Shares used to compute net (loss) income per share attributable to 
shareholders(1):
Basic

$ 

1,487,759 
4,112,105 
5,599,864 

$ 

1,342,334 
3,269,522 
4,611,856 

$ 

908,757 
2,020,734 
2,929,491 

330,867 
2,514,878 
2,845,745 
2,754,119 

1,230,490 
1,503,234 
707,765 
134,929 
3,576,418 
(822,299) 
(2,800,549) 
(3,622,848) 
162,430 
(3,460,418) 

(2.73) 

(2.73) 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

264,351 
1,866,361 
2,130,712 
2,481,144 

901,557 
854,383 
374,844 
81,717 
2,212,501 
268,643 
2,871,949 
3,140,592 
(225,933) 
2,914,659 

2.34 

2.29 

$ 

$ 

$ 

193,532 
1,194,439 
1,387,971 
1,541,520 

602,048 
552,127 
245,343 
51,849 
1,451,367 
90,153 
150,211 
240,364 
79,145 
319,509 

0.27 

0.26 

 1,266,268,155 

 1,246,588,910 

 1,195,697,050 

Diluted

 1,273,647,350 
(1) Prior year share and per share amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Share Split effected in June 2022. 
(2) Includes $97 million of expense related to litigation matters. Refer to the "Litigation and Loss Contingencies" section below for additional 
information.
(3) In the year ended December 31, 2022, we had $30.5 million of severance related costs associated with the one-time reduction in workforce 
with $10.9 million in sales and marketing, $8.4 million in research and development and $11.2 million in general and administrative.
(4) In the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we had $84.3 million, $30.1 million, and $31.6 million, respectively, of impairment 
related costs associated with right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements.

 1,266,268,155 

 1,234,632,740 

(5) Includes stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes as follows: 

2022

Cost of revenues
Sales and marketing
Research and development
General and administrative

$ 

$ 

20

Years ended December 31,
2021
(in thousands)
7,642 
$ 
47,283 
250,787 
91,337 
397,049 

$ 

$ 

$ 

8,896 
64,696 
396,063 
93,206 
562,861 

2020

7,472 
46,390 
188,249 
52,195 
294,306 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(6) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: 

Cost of revenues

Sales and marketing

Research and development

Years ended December 31,

2022

2021

2020

(in thousands)

$ 

48,668 

$ 

20,399 

$ 

19,488 

4,958 

76 

1,544 

206 

1,548 

233 

$ 

53,702 

$ 

22,149 

$ 

21,269 

The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations as a percentage of total revenues for the years 
ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020.

Revenues:

Subscription solutions
Merchant solutions

Cost of revenues:

Subscription solutions
Merchant solutions

Gross profit
Operating expenses:

Sales and marketing
Research and development
General and administrative
Transaction and loan losses

Total operating expenses
(Loss) income from operations
Other (expense) income, net
(Loss) income before income taxes
Recovery of (provision for) income taxes
Net (loss) income

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020

2022

 26.6 %
 73.4 %
 100.0 %

 5.9 %
 44.9 %
 50.8 %
 49.2 %

 22.0 %
 26.8 %
 12.6 %
 2.4 %
 63.9 %
 (14.7) %
 (50.0) %
 (64.7) %
 2.9 %
 (61.8) %

 29.1 %
 70.9 %
 100.0 %

 5.7 %
 40.5 %
 46.2 %
 53.8 %

 19.5 %
 18.5 %
 8.1 %
 1.8 %
 48.0 %
 5.8 %
 62.3 %
 68.1 %
 (4.9) %
 63.2 %

 31.0 %
 69.0 %
 100.0 %

 6.6 %
 40.8 %
 47.4 %
 52.6 %

 20.6 %
 18.8 %
 8.4 %
 1.8 %
 49.5 %
 3.1 %
 5.1 %
 8.2 %
 2.7 %
 10.9 %

The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by geographic location for the years ended December 31, 
2022, 2021, and 2020, based on the location of our merchants.

Revenues:

North America

Canada
United States

EMEA
APAC
Latin America
Total Revenues

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021
(in thousands)

2020

$ 

$ 

345,915 
3,719,489 
917,116 
553,361 
63,983 
5,599,864 

$ 

$ 

316,699 
2,973,934 
799,602 
467,009 
54,612 
4,611,856 

$ 

$ 

192,721 
1,954,105 
454,269 
292,240 
36,156 
2,929,491 

21

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth our consolidated revenues by geographic location as a percentage of total revenues for 
the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, based on the location of our merchants.

Revenues:

North America

Canada
United States

EMEA
APAC
Latin America
Total Revenues

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020

2022

 6.2 %
 66.4 %
 16.4 %
 9.9 %
 1.1 %
 100.0 %

 6.9 %
 64.5 %
 17.3 %
 10.1 %
 1.2 %
 100.0 %

 6.6 %
 66.7 %
 15.5 %
 10.0 %
 1.2 %
 100.0 %

Discussion of the Results of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020

Revenues

Revenues:

Subscription solutions
Merchant solutions

Total revenues
Percentage of revenues:
Subscription solutions
Merchant solutions

Subscription Solutions  

Years ended December 31,
2021

2022

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

$  1,487,759 
  4,112,105 

$  1,342,334 
  3,269,522 

$ 
908,757 
  2,020,734 

$  5,599,864 

$  4,611,856 

$  2,929,491 

 10.8 %
 25.8 %

 21.4 %

 47.7 %
 61.8 %

 57.4 %

 26.6 %
 73.4 %

 100.0 %

 29.1 %
 70.9 %

 100.0 %

 31.0 %
 69.0 %

 100.0 %

Subscription  solutions  revenues  increased  $145.4  million,  or  10.8%,  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared to the same period in 2021. Subscription solutions revenues increased $433.6 million, or 47.7%, for the 
year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. The increase in both periods was primarily a 
result of growth in MRR driven by the higher number of merchants using our platform. The increase from 2021 to 
2022 was offset partially by the growth in adoption of localized pricing in various jurisdictions, the introduction of 
additional free and paid trial incentives, and the impact of introducing our new partner pricing terms for both app 
and theme developers in the fourth quarter of 2021, which eliminated our revenue share on the first million dollars 
made by the developers annually in order to attract the best developers in the world.

Merchant Solutions 

Merchant solutions revenues increased $842.6 million, or 25.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared 
to the same period in 2021. The increase in merchant solutions revenues was primarily a result of Shopify Payments 
revenue, relating to payment processing and currency conversion fees, growing by $579.2 million, or 24.1%, in 2022 
compared to the same period in 2021. This increase was a result of an increase in our Shopify Payments penetration 
rate and number of merchants using our platform. These factors drove $20.3 billion of additional GMV facilitated 
using Shopify Payments in 2022 compared to the same period in 2021, representing growth of 23.6% year over year. 
For  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  the  Shopify  Payments  penetration  rate  was  53.8%,  resulting  in  GMV  of 
$106.1 billion that was facilitated using Shopify Payments. This compares to a penetration rate of 48.9%, resulting 
in GMV of $85.8 billion that was facilitated using Shopify Payments in the same period in 2021. As at December 
31, 2022 Shopify Payments adoption among our merchants was as follows: Canada, 92%, United States, 88%, and 
other countries where Shopify Payments is available, 77% (December 31, 2021 - Canada, 92%; United States, 88%; 
and other countries where Shopify Payments is available, 84%).

In  addition  to  the  increase  in  revenue  from  Shopify  Payments,  our  logistics  offerings,  non-cash  consideration 
received for services rendered as part of strategic partnerships, Shopify Capital, referral fees from partners, and Shop 
22

Pay  Installments  revenues  increased  during  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022  compared  to  the  same  period  in 
2021.  Our  logistics  offerings  increased  as  a  result  of  the  acquisition  of  Deliverr.  The  increases  in  non-cash 
consideration  received  for  services  rendered  as  part  of  strategic  partnerships  and  referral  fees  from  partners  were 
driven largely by an increase in the number of arrangements with partners, as well as an increase in referral activity, 
when compared to the same period in 2021. Shopify Capital revenue increased mainly as a result of an increase in 
the loans and advances outstanding throughout the period coupled with an increase in GMV. Shop Pay Installments 
revenue increased due to an increase in GMV processed through Shop Pay Installments.

Merchant solutions revenues increased $1,248.8 million, or 61.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared 
to the same period in 2020. The increase in merchant solutions revenues was primarily a result of Shopify Payments 
revenue  growing  by  $879.0  million,  or  57.7%.  Additionally,  revenue  from  referral  fees  from  partners,  non-cash 
consideration  received  for  services  rendered  as  part  of  strategic  partnerships,  Shopify  Capital,  Shopify  Shipping, 
revenue from transaction fees, our logistics offerings, and advertising revenue on the Shopify app store increased for 
the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020.

Cost of Revenues 

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

Cost of revenues:

Cost of subscription solutions
Cost of merchant solutions

Total cost of revenues
Percentage of revenues:

Cost of subscription solutions
Cost of merchant solutions

Cost of Subscription Solutions 

$ 
330,867 
  2,514,878 
$  2,845,745 

$ 
264,351 
  1,866,361 
$  2,130,712 

$ 
193,532 
  1,194,439 
$  1,387,971 

 25.2 %
 34.7 %
 33.6 %

 36.6 %
 56.3 %
 53.5 %

 5.9 %
 44.9 %
 50.8 %

 5.7 %
 40.5 %
 46.2 %

 6.6 %
 40.8 %
 47.4 %

Cost of subscription solutions increased $66.5 million, or 25.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 
the same period in 2021. The increase was due to an increase in the costs necessary to support the growth in traffic 
and functionality of our platform across multiple jurisdictions, resulting in an increase in: cloud infrastructure costs, 
employee-related costs, and credit card fees for processing merchant billings. The increase was slightly offset with a 
decrease in recognized cost of sales related to third-party partners for the development of themes as we commenced 
recognizing revenue for the sale of themes net of costs in the fourth quarter of 2021. As a percentage of revenues, 
costs of subscription solutions increased from 5.7% in 2021 to 5.9% in 2022 due to an increase in infrastructure and 
hosting  costs  slightly  offset  by  a  decrease  in  recognized  cost  of  sales  related  to  third-party  partners  for  the 
development of themes.

Cost of subscription solutions increased $70.8 million, or 36.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 
the same period in 2020. The increase was primarily due to higher third-party infrastructure and hosting costs, credit 
card  fees  for  processing  merchant  billings,  employee-related  costs,  and  payments  to  third-party  partners  for  the 
registration of domain names.

Cost of Merchant Solutions 

Cost of merchant solutions increased $648.5 million, or 34.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 
the  same  period  in  2021.  The  increase  was  primarily  due  to  higher  payment  processing  fees  resulting  from  an 
increase in GMV facilitated through Shopify Payments and due to an increase in costs associated with our logistics 
offerings as a result of revenue growth from the acquisition of Deliverr. Cost of merchant solutions as a percentage 
of revenues increased from 40.5% in 2021 to 44.9% in 2022 mainly due to Shopify Payments representing a larger 
percentage of total revenues and higher payment processing fees from Shopify Payments, caused by an increase in 
network costs and changes in payment card type, relative to the increase in Shopify Payments revenue. The increase 
is also driven by the increase in costs associated with our logistics offerings as a result of revenue growth from the 
acquisition of Deliverr, including the related amortization of acquired intangibles.

23

Cost of merchant solutions increased $671.9 million, or 56.3%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 
the  same  period  in  2020.  The  increase  was  primarily  due  to  the  increase  in  GMV  facilitated  through  Shopify 
Payments, which resulted in higher payment processing fees. The increase was also due in part to costs associated 
with our logistics offerings, materials and third-party manufacturing costs, credit card fees for processing merchant 
billings, product costs associated with expanding our product offerings, infrastructure and hosting costs, cost of POS 
hardware units, employee-related costs, and amortization of acquired technology.

Gross Profit 

Gross profit
Percentage of total revenues

Years ended December 31,
2021

2022

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)
$  1,541,520 

$  2,754,119 

$  2,481,144 

 11.0 %

 61.0 %

 49.2 %

 53.8 %

 52.6 %

Gross profit increased $273.0 million, or 11.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the same period 
in 2021. As a percentage of total revenues, gross profit decreased from 53.8% in the year ended December 31, 2021 
to  49.2%  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  principally  due  to  Shopify  Payments  representing  a  larger 
percentage  of  total  revenues,  higher  payment  processing  fees  from  Shopify  Payments,  caused  by  an  increase  in 
network  costs  and  changes  in  payment  card  type  relative  to  the  increase  in  Shopify  Payments  revenue,  higher 
infrastructure  and  hosting  costs,  and  the  inclusion  of  Deliverr  operations  in  our  results,  including  the  related 
amortization of acquired intangibles. This was partly offset by an increase in higher margin revenue streams, such as 
non-cash consideration received for services rendered as part of strategic partnerships. 

Gross profit increased $939.6 million, or 61.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period 
in 2020. As a percentage of total revenues, gross profit increased from 52.6% in the year ended December 31, 2020 
to  53.8%  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021,  principally  due  to  higher  revenues  from  higher  margin  revenue 
streams.

Operating Expenses 

Sales and Marketing 

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

Sales and marketing
Percentage of total revenues

$  1,230,490 

$ 

901,557 

$ 

602,048 

 36.5 %

 49.7 %

 22.0 %

 19.5 %

 20.6 %

Sales and marketing expenses increased $328.9 million, or 36.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared 
to the same period in 2021, due to an increase of $178.5 million in employee-related costs ($17.4 million of which 
related  to  stock-based  compensation  and  related  payroll  taxes),  as  a  result  of  higher  headcount  in  sales  and 
marketing  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022  compared  to  same  period  in  2021.  The  increase  in  sales  and 
marketing expense also includes an increase of $129.2 million spent on marketing programs to support the growth of 
our  business,  such  as  advertisements  on  display  ads  and  media.  Additionally,  severance  related  costs  of  $10.9 
million were incurred in an effort to recalibrate our operations.

Sales and marketing expenses increased $299.5 million, or 49.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared 
to the same period in 2020, primarily due to an increase of $196.5 million in expenditures on marketing programs. In 
addition to marketing costs, employee-related costs increased by $92.7 million and computer hardware and software 
costs increased by $10.3 million.

24

Research and Development

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

Research and development   
Percentage of total revenues   

$  1,503,234 

$ 

854,383 

$ 

552,127 

 75.9 %

 54.7 %

 26.8 %

 18.5 %

 18.8 %

Research  and  development  expenses  increased  $648.9  million,  or  75.9%,  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared to the same period in 2021, due to an increase of $601.2 million in employee-related costs ($145.3 million 
of  which  related  to  stock-based  compensation  and  related  payroll  taxes),  including  the  impact  of  increased 
headcount  associated  with  the  acquisition  of  Deliverr  and  a  $24.1  million  increase  in  computer  hardware  and 
software costs, all as a result of growth in our research and development employee base and expanded development 
programs.  Additionally,  severance  related  costs  of  $8.4  million  were  incurred  in  an  effort  to  recalibrate  our 
operations.

Research  and  development  expenses  increased  $302.3  million,  or  54.7%,  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021 
compared to the same period in 2020, due to an increase of $278.7 million in employee-related costs and an increase 
of $21.8 million in computer and software costs, all as a result of growth in our research and development employee 
base and expanded development program.

General and Administrative 

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

General and administrative   
Percentage of total revenues   

$ 

707,765 

$ 

374,844 

$ 

245,343 

 88.8 %

 52.8 %

 12.6 %

 8.1 %

 8.4 %

General  and  administrative  expenses  increased  $332.9  million,  or  88.8%,  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared to the same period in 2021, due to an increase of $111.0 million in employee-related costs ($1.9 million of 
which  related  to  stock-based  compensation  and  related  payroll  taxes),  a  $97.0  million  increase  in  litigation 
contingencies, a $54.2 million increase in impairment expenses related to office locations we ceased using, a $32.6 
million increase in professional services for legal and financial services including the acquisition related fees for the 
Deliverr acquisition, a $12.7 million increase in public company expenses, a $11.2 million increase due to severance 
related costs incurred in an effort to recalibrate our operations, and a $7.8 million increase in bad debt expense. 

General  and  administrative  expenses  increased  $129.5  million,  or  52.8%,  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021 
compared to the same period in 2020, due to an increase of $94.9 million in employee-related costs, an increase of 
$17.5  million  in  finance  costs,  which  includes  indirect  taxes,  general  bad  debt  expense  related  to  expected  credit 
losses,  insurance,  depreciation  of  computers,  and  sustainability  spend,  and  an  increase  of  $11.9  million  in 
professional services for legal and financial services. 

Transaction and Loan Losses

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

Transaction and loan losses
Percentage of total revenues   

$ 

134,929 

$ 

81,717 

$ 

51,849 

 65.1 %

 57.6 %

 2.4 %

 1.8 %

 1.8 %

Transaction and loan losses increased $53.2 million, or 65.1%, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 
the same period in 2021, due to an increase in Shopify Payments and Shop Pay Installments losses of $26.9 million, 
as a result of an increase in realized and expected losses and increased GMV processed through Shopify Payments 
and Shop Pay Installments. The increase can also be attributed to an increase in losses related to Shopify Capital of 

25

 
$25.8  million  driven  by  an  expansion  of  our  Capital  offerings  and  programs  as  well  as  an  increase  in  current 
expected losses related to Shopify Capital relative to the same period in 2021. 

Transaction and loan losses increased $29.9 million, or 57.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 
the  same  period  in  2020,  due  to  an  increase  of  $20.4  million  in  losses  related  to  Shopify  Capital  driven  by  an 
expansion of our Capital offerings and programs as well as an increase in current expected losses, and an increase of 
$9.5 million in losses related to Shopify Payments and Shop Pay Installments, as a result of an increase in realized 
losses in the period and increased GMV processed through Shopify Payments and Shop Pay Installments, offset by a 
decrease in the current expected loss rate related to Shopify Payments relative to the same period in 2020. 

Other (Expense) Income 

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

Other (expense) income, net   

$ 

(2,800,549) 

$ 

2,871,949 

$ 

150,211 

*

*

*  Not a meaningful comparison 

In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  we  had  other  expenses  of  $2.8  billion  compared  to  other  income  of  $2.9 
billion and $150.3 million in the same periods in 2021 and 2020, respectively. 

In the year ended December 31, 2022, we had a net unrealized loss on equity and other investments of $3.0 billion, 
of which $2.7 billion was in investments with readily determinable fair values mainly related to the change in share 
prices from December 31, 2021 to December 31, 2022 in our Affirm and Global-E investments, and $287.6 million 
of unrealized losses related to investments without readily determinable fair values due to impairments in the year. 
The unrealized losses were offset slightly by net realized gains on equity and other investments of $124.0 million 
and interest income of $79.1 million.

In the year ended December 31, 2021, we had an unrealized gain on equity and other investments of $2.9 billion due 
mainly to our investments with readily determinable fair values and interest income of $15.4 million, offset slightly 
by interest expense of $3.5 million.  

In the year ended December 31, 2020, we had an unrealized gain on equity and other investments of $135.2 million, 
interest income of $23.4 million, offset slightly by interest expense of $9.1 million.

Recovery of (Provision for) Income Taxes

2022

Years ended December 31,
2021

2020
(in thousands, except percentages)

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2021 vs 2020
% Change

Recovery of (provision for) 

Income taxes

*  Not a meaningful comparison 

$ 

162,430 

$ 

(225,933) 

$ 

79,145 

*

*

In the year ended December 31, 2022, we had a recovery of income taxes of $162.4 million primarily as a result of 
the unrealized loss on equity and other investments, share-based compensation, and change in valuation allowance 
related to deferred tax assets in Canada as well as the United States. This compares to a provision for income taxes 
of $225.9 million in the same period in 2021 primarily related to unrealized gains on equity and other investments, 
ongoing  operations,  other  discrete  items,  primarily  related  to  tax  benefits  for  share-based  compensation,  the 
impairment of right-of-use assets and fixed assets, our ability to carry-back losses to prior years in Canada, and the 
recognition of deferred tax assets in Canada.

As a result of the application of our tax rates on the results of ongoing operations, other discrete items, primarily 
related  to  share-based  compensation,  non-taxable  unrealized  gains  on  equity  and  other  investments,  change  in 
valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets in the United States, and the reversal of the valuation allowance 
related to deferred tax assets in Canada, we had a provision for income taxes of $225.9 million in the year ended 
December 31, 2021, compared to a recovery of income taxes of $79.1 million in the same period in 2020.

26

(Loss) Profit

2022

Net (loss) income

$ 

(3,460,418) 

$ 

Net (loss) income per share 
attributable to shareholders:

Years ended December 31,
2021

2022 vs 2021
% Change

2020
(in thousands, except share and per share data)
2,914,659 

319,509 

$ 

*

Basic

Diluted

$ 

$ 

(2.73) 

(2.73) 

$ 

$ 

2.34 

2.29 

$ 

$ 

0.27 

0.26 

Shares used to compute net (loss) 
income per share attributable to 
shareholders:

Basic

Diluted

1,266,268,155

1,246,588,910

1,195,697,050

1,266,268,155

1,273,647,350

1,234,632,740

*  Not a meaningful comparison 

*

*

*

*

2021 vs 2020
% Change

*

*

*

*

*

For the year ended December 31, 2022, basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to shareholders was $2.73, 
when  compared  to  basic  and  diluted  net  income  per  share  attributable  to  shareholders  of  $2.34  and  $2.29, 
respectively,  in  the  same  period  in  2021.  The  net  loss  is  largely  due  to  net  unrealized  losses  on  equity  and  other 
investments. Basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to shareholders of $0.27 and $0.26, respectively, for the 
year ended December 31, 2020 increased to basic and diluted net income per share attributable to share attributable 
to shareholders of $2.34 and $2.29, respectively, in the year ended December 31, 2021.

27

Quarterly Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth our results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.

Revenues:

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Cost of revenues(3)(4):

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Gross profit

Operating expenses:

Sales and marketing(3)(4)
Research and development(3)(4)
General and administrative(2)(3)
Transaction and loan losses

Total operating expenses

(Loss) income from operations

Other expense, net

Loss before income taxes

(Provision for) recovery of  income taxes

Net loss

Net loss per share attributable to shareholders(1):

Basic 

Diluted

Shares used to compute net loss per share attributable to shareholders(1):

Basic

Diluted

Three months ended December 31,

2022

2021

(in thousands, except share and per 
share data)

$ 

400,254 

$ 

351,208 

1,334,724 

1,734,978 

1,028,816 

1,380,024 

85,771 

850,699 

936,470 

798,508 

297,741 

440,547 

214,651 

34,318 

987,257 

(188,749) 

(425,859) 

(614,608) 

(9,086) 

75,587 

611,778 

687,365 

692,659 

275,475 

273,912 

101,054 

27,814 

678,255 

14,404 

(503,123) 

(488,719) 

117,408 

$ 

(623,694) 

$ 

(371,311) 

$ 

$ 

(0.49) 

(0.49) 

$ 

$ 

(0.30) 

(0.30) 

1,273,338,804 

1,257,347,550 

1,273,338,804 

1,257,347,550 

(1) Prior period share and per share amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the ten-for-one share split ("Share Split") effected in June 
2022. 
(2) In the three months ended December 31, 2022, we had $84.3 million of impairment related costs associated with right-of-use assets and 
leasehold improvements.

28

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3) Includes stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes as follows: 

Cost of revenues

Sales and marketing

Research and development

General and administrative

(4) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: 

Cost of revenues

Sales and marketing

Research and development

Revenues

Revenues:

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Total revenues

Percentage of revenues:

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Subscription Solutions  

Three months ended December 31,

2022

2021

(in thousands)

$ 

1,977 

$ 

14,894 

103,587 

24,447 

1,995 

13,735 

74,932 

18,735 

$ 

144,905 

$ 

109,397 

Three months ended December 31,

2022

2021

(in thousands)

18,359 

$ 

2,163 

— 

20,522 

$ 

5,960 

386 

32 

6,378 

$ 

$ 

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

400,254 

$ 

351,208 

1,334,724 

1,028,816 

$ 

1,734,978 

$ 

1,380,024 

 14.0 %

 29.7 %

 25.7 %

 23.1 %

 76.9 %

 100.0 %

 25.4 %

 74.6 %

 100.0 %

Subscription solutions revenues increased $49.0 million, or 14.0%, for the three months ended December 31, 2022 
compared  to  the  same  period  in  2021.  The  period-over-period  increase  was  primarily  a  result  of  growth  in  MRR, 
which was driven largely by the higher number of merchants using our platform, and increased app revenue due to 
more app developers surpassing their first million in sales prior to the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to the same 
period  in  2021.  The  increase  was  offset  partially  by  the  growth  in  adoption  of  localized  pricing  in  various 
jurisdictions and the introduction of additional free and paid trial incentives. 

Merchant Solutions 

Merchant  solutions  revenues  increased  $305.9  million,  or  29.7%,  for  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in merchant solutions revenues was primarily a result of Shopify 
Payments revenue, relating to payment processing and currency conversion fees, growing in the three months ended 
December 31, 2022 compared to the same period in 2021. This increase was a result of an increase in our Shopify 
Payments  penetration  rate  and  number  of  merchants  using  our  platform.  These  factors  drove  $6.5  billion  of 

29

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
additional GMV facilitated using Shopify Payments in the three months ended December 31, 2022 compared to the 
same period in 2021, representing growth of 23.5% quarter over quarter. For the three months ended December 31, 
2022, the Shopify Payments penetration rate was 56.2%, resulting in GMV of $34.2 billion that was facilitated using 
Shopify  Payments.  This  compares  to  a  penetration  rate  of  51.3%  resulting  in  GMV  of  $27.7  billion  that  was 
facilitated using Shopify Payments in the same period in 2021.

In  addition  to  the  increase  in  revenue  from  Shopify  Payments,  our  logistics  offerings,  referral  fees  from  partners, 
non-cash  consideration  received  for  services  rendered  as  part  of  strategic  partnerships,  Shopify  Capital,  and  Shop 
Pay  Installments  revenues  increased  during  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022,  compared  to  the  same 
period in 2021. Our logistics offerings increased as a result of the acquisition of Deliverr. The increases in non-cash 
consideration  received  for  services  rendered  as  part  of  strategic  partnerships  and  referral  fees  from  partners  were 
driven largely by an increase in the number of arrangements with partners, as well as an increase in referral activity, 
when compared to the same period in 2021. Shopify Capital revenue increased mainly as a result of an increase in 
the loans and advances outstanding throughout the period coupled with the increase in GMV. Shop Pay Installments 
revenue increased due to an increase in GMV processed through Shop Pay Installments. 

Cost of Revenues 

Cost of revenues:

Cost of subscription solutions

Cost of merchant solutions

Total cost of revenues

Percentage of revenues:

Cost of subscription solutions

Cost of merchant solutions

Cost of Subscription Solutions 

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

$ 

85,771 

850,699 

936,470 

$ 

$ 

75,587 

611,778 

687,365 

 13.5 %

 39.1 %

 36.2 %

 4.9 %

 49.0 %

 54.0 %

 5.5 %

 44.3 %

 49.8 %

Cost  of  subscription  solutions  increased  $10.2  million,  or  13.5%,  for  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared  to  the  same  period  in  2021.  The  increase  was  due  to  an  increase  in  the  costs  necessary  to  support  the 
growth  in  traffic  and  functionality  of  our  platform  across  multiple  jurisdictions,  resulting  in  an  increase  in  cloud 
infrastructure  costs  and  credit  card  fees  for  processing  merchant  billings.  As  a  percentage  of  revenues,  cost  of 
subscription solutions decreased from 5.5% in the three months ended December 31, 2021 to 4.9% in three months 
ended December 31, 2022 due to subscription solutions revenue representing a smaller percentage of total revenues. 

Cost of Merchant Solutions 

Cost  of  merchant  solutions  increased  $238.9  million,  or  39.1%,  for  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher payment processing fees resulting 
from an increase in GMV facilitated through Shopify Payments and due to higher costs associated with our logistics 
offerings as a result of revenue growth from the acquisition of Deliverr. Cost of merchant solutions as a percentage 
of revenues increased from 44.3% in the three months ended December 31, 2021 to 49.0% in the three months ended 
December 31, 2022 due mainly to the increase in costs associated with our logistics offerings as a result of revenue 
growth  from  the  acquisition  of  Deliverr,  and  by  the  relative  growth  of  Shopify  Payments  revenue  and  higher 
payment processing fees from Shopify Payments, caused by an increase in network costs and changes in payment 
card type.

30

 
 
 
Gross Profit 

Gross profit

Percentage of total revenues

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

798,508 

$ 

692,659 

 15.3 %

 46.0 %

 50.2 %

Gross profit increased $105.8 million, or 15.3%, for the three months ended December 31, 2022 compared to the 
same period in 2021. As a percentage of total revenues, gross profit decreased from 50.2% in the three months ended 
December  31,  2021  to  46.0%  in  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022,  principally  due  to  the  inclusion  of 
Deliverr operations in our results, including the related amortization of acquired intangibles, and the relative growth 
in Shopify Payments revenue and higher payment processing fees from Shopify Payments, caused by an increase in 
network  costs  and  changes  in  payment  card  type.  This  was  partly  offset  by  an  increase  in  higher  margin  revenue 
streams, such as non-cash consideration received for services rendered as part of strategic partnerships.

Operating Expenses 

Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing

Percentage of total revenues

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

297,741 

$ 

275,475 

 8.1 %

 17.2 %

 20.0 %

Sales  and  marketing  expenses  increased  $22.3  million,  or  8.1%,  for  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared to the same period in 2021, due to an increase of $23.9 million in employee-related costs ($1.2 million of 
which related to stock-based compensation and related payroll taxes), compared to the same period in 2021.

Research and Development

Research and development   

Percentage of total revenues   

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

440,547 

$ 

273,912 

 60.8 %

 25.4 %

 19.8 %

Research and development expenses increased $166.6 million, or 60.8%, for the three months ended December 31, 
2022 compared to the same period in 2021, due to an increase of $151.3 million in employee-related costs ($28.7 
million of which related to stock-based compensation and related payroll taxes), including the impact of increased 
headcount  associated  with  the  acquisition  of  Deliverr,  and  a  $6.1  million  increase  in  computer  hardware  and 
software costs, all as a result of the growth in our employee base and expanded development. The increase is also 
due to a $9.1 million increase in facilities costs as we prepare for operations at our new fulfillment centers.

31

General and Administrative 

General and administrative   

Percentage of total revenues   

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

214,651 

$ 

101,054 

 112.4 %

 12.4 %

 7.3 %

General and administrative expenses increased $113.6 million, or 112.4%, for the three months ended December 31, 
2022 compared to the same period in 2021, due to an increase of $84.3 million in impairment expenses related to 
office locations we ceased using, $23.2 million in employee-related costs (which included a $5.7 million increase 
related to stock-based compensation and related payroll taxes), a $3.1 million increase in professional services for 
legal and financial services, and a $2.9 million increase in bad debt expense. 

Transaction and Loan Losses

Transaction and loan losses

Percentage of total revenues   

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

$ 

34,318 

$ 

27,814 

 23.4 %

 2.0 %

 2.0 %

Transaction  and  loan  losses  increased  $6.5  million,  or  23.4%,  for  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022 
compared  to  the  same  period  in  2021,  primarily  due  to  an  increase  of  $7.2  million  in  losses  attributed  to  Shopify 
Payments,  primarily  related  to  higher  realized  losses  in  the  period,  an  increase  in  expected  losses,  and  increased 
GMV processed through Shopify Payments. 

Other Expense, net

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

Other expense, net   

$ 

(425,859)  $ 

(503,123) 

*

*  Not a meaningful comparison 

In  the  three  months  ended  December  31,  2022,  we  had  other  expenses  of  $425.9  million,  compared  to  $503.1 
million in the same period in 2021. 

In the three months ended December 31, 2022, we had an unrealized loss on equity and other investments of $475.4 
million, of which $314.0 million was in investments with readily determinable fair values related to the change in 
share prices from September 30, 2022 to December 31, 2022 in our Affirm and Global-E investments, and $145.3 
million  of  unrealized  losses  in  investments  without  readily  determinable  fair  values  due  to  impairments  in  the 
period. These sources of other expense were offset by interest income of $39.6 million recognized on investments 
and by a foreign exchange gain of $9.5 million. 

This compares to the three months ended December 31, 2021 where we had unrealized losses on equity and other 
investments of $509.7 million due mainly to our investments in Affirm and Global-E caused by the change in their 
share prices from September 30, 2021 to December 31, 2021, offset slightly by interest income of $4.9 million and a 
foreign exchange gain of $2.6 million.

32

(Provision for) Recovery of Income Taxes

Three months ended December 31,

2022 vs. 2021

2022

2021

% Change

(in thousands, except percentages)

(Provision for) recovery of income taxes 

$ 

(9,086) 

$ 

117,408 

*

*  Not a meaningful comparison 

We had a provision for income taxes of $9.1 million in the three months ended December 31, 2022, on account of 
earnings in jurisdictions outside of North America. This compares to a recovery of income taxes of $117.4 million in 
the three months ended December 31, 2021, as a result of the application of our tax rates to the results of ongoing 
operations, other discrete items primarily related to share-based compensation, unrealized losses on equity and other 
investments, and the change in valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets in the United States. 

33

Summary of Quarterly Results

The following table sets forth selected unaudited quarterly results of operations data for each of the eight quarters 
ended December 31, 2022. The information for each of these quarters has been derived from unaudited condensed 
consolidated  financial  statements  that  were  prepared  on  the  same  basis  as  the  audited  annual  financial  statements 
and,  in  the  opinion  of  management,  reflects  all  adjustments,  which  include  only  normal  recurring  adjustments, 
necessary for the fair presentation of the results of operations for these periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This 
data  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  our  unaudited  condensed  consolidated  financial  statements  and  audited 
consolidated financial statements and related notes for the relevant period. These quarterly operating results are not 
necessarily indicative of our operating results for a full year or any future period. 

Dec 31, 
2022

Sep 30, 
2022

Jun 30, 
2022

Three months ended
Mar 31, 
Dec 31, 
2021
2022

Sep 30, 
2021

Jun 30, 
2021

Mar 31, 
2021

(in thousands, except per share data)

Revenues:

Subscription solutions

$  400,254  $  376,301  $  366,443  $  344,761  $  351,208  $  336,208  $  334,237  $  320,681 

Merchant solutions

 1,334,724 

  989,899 

928,620 

858,862 

 1,028,816 

  787,532 

  785,208 

  667,966 

 1,734,978 

 1,366,200 

  1,295,063 

  1,203,623 

 1,380,024 

  1,123,740 

 1,119,445 

  988,647 

Cost of revenues:(5)(6)

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Gross profit

Operating expenses:
Sales and marketing(3)(5)(6)
Research and development(3)(5)(6)

General and administrative 

(2)(3)(4)(5)

85,771 

82,313 

  850,699 

  621,555 

  936,470 

  703,868 

  798,508 

  662,332 

85,238 

554,183 

639,421 

655,642 

77,545 

75,587 

67,355 

63,027 

58,382 

488,441 

  611,778 

  447,476 

  435,558 

  371,549 

565,986 

  687,365 

  514,831 

  498,585 

  429,931 

637,637 

  692,659 

  608,909 

  620,860 

  558,716 

  297,741 

  302,476 

  440,547 

  412,359 

326,902 

346,667 

303,371 

  275,475 

  237,949 

  201,910 

  186,223 

303,661 

  273,912 

  221,028 

  183,557 

  175,886 

  214,651 

  255,125 

129,901 

108,088 

  101,054 

  128,722 

77,966 

67,102 

Transaction and loan losses

34,318 

37,738 

42,380 

20,493 

27,814 

25,311 

17,986 

10,606 

Total operating expenses

  987,257 

 1,007,698 

845,850 

735,613 

  678,255 

  613,010 

  481,419 

  439,817 

(Loss) income from operations

  (188,749) 

  (345,366) 

(190,208) 

(97,976) 

14,404 

(4,101) 

  139,441 

  118,899 

Other (expense) income, net

  (425,859) 

  188,233 

  (1,008,042) 

  (1,554,881) 

  (503,123) 

  1,344,553 

  779,874 

  1,250,645 

(Loss) income before income 

taxes

(Provision for) recovery of 

income taxes

  (614,608) 

  (157,133) 

  (1,198,250) 

  (1,652,857) 

  (488,719) 

  1,340,452 

  919,315 

  1,369,544 

(9,086) 

(1,276) 

(5,657) 

178,449 

  117,408 

  (192,020) 

(40,222) 

  (111,099) 

Net (loss) income

$ (623,694)  $ (158,409)  $ (1,203,907)  $ (1,474,408)  $ (371,311)  $ 1,148,432  $  879,093  $ 1,258,445 

Net (loss) income per share 

attributable to shareholders(1):
Basic

Diluted

$ 

$ 

(0.49)  $ 

(0.12)  $ 

(0.95)  $ 

(1.17)  $ 

(0.30)  $ 

0.92  $ 

0.71  $ 

(0.49)  $ 

(0.12)  $ 

(0.95)  $ 

(1.17)  $ 

(0.30)  $ 

0.90  $ 

0.69  $ 

1.02 

0.99 

(1) Prior period per share amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Share Split effected in June 2022. 
(2) In the third quarter of 2022, we incurred $97 million of expenses related to legal contingencies. Refer to the "Litigation and Loss 
Contingencies" section below for additional information.
(3) In the third quarter of 2022, we had $30.5 million of severance related costs associated with the one-time reduction in workforce with $10.9 
million in sales and marketing, $8.4 million in research and development and $11.2 million in general and administrative.
(4) In the fourth quarter of 2022 and the third quarter of 2021, we had $84.3 million and $30.1 million, respectively, of impairment related costs 
associated with right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements.

34

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(5) Includes stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes as follows: 

Dec 31, 
2022

Sep 30, 
2022

Jun 30, 
2022

Mar 31, 
2022

Dec 31, 
2021

Sep 30, 
2021

Jun 30, 
2021

Mar 31, 
2021

Three months ended

(in thousands)

$ 

1,977  $ 

2,327  $ 

2,409  $ 

2,183  $ 

1,995  $ 

1,987  $ 

1,809  $ 

1,851 

Cost of revenues

Sales and marketing

Research and development

  103,587 

  107,972 

General and administrative

24,447 

26,128 

14,894 

17,224 

17,375 

98,767 

22,560 

15,203 

85,737 

20,071 

13,735 

74,932 

18,735 

11,673 

63,840 

30,638 

10,990 

55,988 

23,759 

10,885 

56,027 

18,205 

 (6) Includes amortization of acquired intangibles as follows: 

$  144,905  $  153,651  $  141,111  $  123,194  $  109,397  $  108,138  $  92,546  $  86,968 

Dec 31, 
2022

Sep 30, 
2022

Jun 30, 
2022

Mar 31, 
2022

Dec 31, 
2021

Sep 30, 
2021

Jun 30, 
2021

Mar 31, 
2021

Three months ended

(in thousands)

Cost of revenues

Sales and marketing

Research and development

$  18,359  $  17,133  $ 

6,942  $ 

6,234  $ 

5,960  $ 

5,536  $ 

4,372  $ 

4,531 

2,163 

— 

2,025 

— 

384 

— 

386 

76 

386 

32 

386 

58 

386 

58 

386 

58 

$  20,522  $  19,158  $ 

7,326  $ 

6,696  $ 

6,378  $ 

5,980  $ 

4,816  $ 

4,975 

The  following  table  sets  forth  selected  unaudited  quarterly  statements  of  operations  data  as  a  percentage  of  total 
revenues for each of the eight quarters ended December 31, 2022.      

Dec 31, 
2022

Sep 30, 
2022

Jun 30, 
2022

Mar 31, 
2022

Dec 31, 
2021

Sep 30, 
2021

Jun 30, 
2021

Mar 31, 
2021

Three months ended

 23.1 %

 76.9 %

 27.5 %

 72.5 %

 28.3 %

 71.7 %

 28.6 %

 71.4 %

 25.4 %

 74.6 %

 29.9 %

 70.1 %

 29.9 %

 70.1 %

 32.4 %

 67.6 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 100.0 %

 4.9 %

 49.0 %

 54.0 %

 46.0 %

 17.2 %

 25.4 %

 12.4 %

 2.0 %

 56.9 %

 6.0 %

 45.5 %

 51.5 %

 48.5 %

 22.1 %

 30.2 %

 18.7 %

 2.8 %

 73.8 %

 6.6 %

 42.8 %

 49.4 %

 50.6 %

 25.2 %

 26.8 %

 10.0 %

 3.3 %

 65.3 %

 (10.9) %

 (24.5) %

 (25.3) %

 13.8 %

 (14.7) %

 (77.8) %

 6.4 %

 40.6 %

 47.0 %

 53.0 %

 25.2 %

 25.2 %

 9.0 %

 1.7 %

 61.1 %

 (8.1) %

 5.5 %

 44.3 %

 49.8 %

 50.2 %

 20.0 %

 19.8 %

 7.3 %

 2.0 %

 49.1 %

 1.0 %

 6.0 %

 39.8 %

 45.8 %

 54.2 %

 21.2 %

 19.7 %

 11.5 %

 2.3 %

 54.6 %

 (0.4) %

 (129.2) %

 (36.5) %

 119.6 %

 5.6 %

 38.9 %

 44.5 %

 55.5 %

 18.0 %

 16.4 %

 7.0 %

 1.6 %

 43.0 %

 12.5 %

 69.7 %

 5.9 %

 37.6 %

 43.4 %

 56.5 %

 18.8 %

 17.8 %

 6.8 %

 1.1 %

 44.5 %

 12.0 %

 126.5 %

 (35.4) %

 (11.5) %

 (92.5) %

 (137.3) %

 (35.4) %

 119.3 %

 82.1 %

 138.5 %

Revenues:

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Cost of revenues: 

Subscription solutions

Merchant solutions

Gross profit

Operating expenses:

Sales and marketing

Research and development

General and administrative

Transaction and loan losses

Total operating expenses

(Loss) income from operations

Other (expense) income, net

(Loss) income before income 

taxes

(Provision for) recovery of 

income taxes

Net (loss) income

 (35.9) %

 (11.6) %

 (93.0) %

 (122.5) %

 (26.9) %

 (0.5) %

 (0.1) %

 (0.4) %

 14.8 %

 8.5 %

 (17.1) %

 102.2 %

 (3.6) %

 78.5 %

 (11.2) %

 127.3 %

We believe that year-over-year comparisons are more meaningful than our sequential results due to seasonality in 
our business. While we believe that this seasonality has affected and will continue to affect our quarterly results, our 
rapid  growth  has  largely  masked  seasonal  trends  to  date.  Our  merchant  solutions  revenues  are  directionally 

35

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
correlated  with  our  merchants'  GMV.  Our  merchants'  GMV  typically  increases  during  the  fourth-quarter  holiday 
season. As a result, we have historically generated higher merchant solutions revenues in our fourth quarter than in 
other quarters. Due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which accelerated the shift of purchasing habits to 
ecommerce, we observed a rapid growth in merchant solutions revenue throughout the pandemic, most notably in 
the first half of 2021 where further lockdowns and government stimulus propelled the COVID-triggered acceleration 
of  ecommerce.  As  the  COVID-19  related  impacts  that  triggered  the  acceleration  of  ecommerce  continue  to  ease, 
growth in merchant solutions revenue may not replicate recent patterns. As a result of the growth of our merchant 
solutions offerings, we believe that our business may become more seasonal in the future, and that historical patterns 
in our business may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance.

Quarterly Revenue and Gross Margin Trends 

Historically, revenues experienced a seasonal decrease in our first quarters as buyers typically reduce their spending 
following  the  holiday  season  resulting  in  a  seasonal  decrease  in  GMV  per  merchant,  which  was  not  completely 
offset by merchant and MRR growth. Subsequently, revenues have increased in each of the next three quarters as a 
result  of  merchant,  MRR,  and  overall  GMV  growth.  Our  merchants  have  processed  additional  GMV  during  the 
fourth-quarter holiday seasons, and as a result we have generated higher merchant solutions revenues in our fourth 
quarters compared to other quarters. Due to the continued growth of our merchant solutions offerings, we believe 
that our business may become more seasonal in the future. 

Our gross margin percentage has varied over the past eight quarters and is generally driven by the mix between our 
higher  margin  subscription  solutions  revenue  and  lower  margin  merchant  solutions  revenue.  While  our  total 
revenues have increased in recent periods, the mix has shifted towards merchant solutions revenue, most notably in 
the  fourth  quarter  due  to  higher  holiday  volume  of  orders  facilitated  and  the  resulting  Shopify  Payments  revenue 
during this period. We expect this overall trend to continue over time.

In connection with expanding our operations internationally, we anticipate a growing proportion of our revenues and 
cost  of  sales  transactions  to  be  incurred  in  foreign  currencies  as  compared  to  USD  due  to  increased  Shopify 
Payments,  Shopify  Capital,  subscriptions,  and  other  billings  to  select  countries  in  local  currency.  Fluctuations  in 
foreign currencies relative to the USD may impact identified quarterly and yearly trends. 

In  addition,  the  acquisition  of  Deliverr  will  impact  the  comparability  of  our  revenues  and  gross  margin,  which 
started in the third quarter of 2022, as it continues to be integrated into our logistics offerings. 

Quarterly Operating Expenses Trends 

Total  operating  expenses  have  increased  sequentially  for  each  period  presented.  We  took  impairment  charges  on 
certain office spaces in the fourth quarter of 2022 and the third quarter of 2021, which caused an increase in general 
and  administrative  spend  relative  to  revenue  in  that  quarter.  In  the  third  quarter  of  2022,  we  recorded  litigation 
contingencies which caused an increase in general and administrative spend relative to revenue in that quarter. Total 
operating expenses have increased primarily due to the addition of personnel in connection with the expansion of 
our business and additional marketing initiatives to attract potential merchants. In addition, the Deliverr acquisition 
will impact the comparability of operating expenses, which started in the third quarter of 2022. We note a significant 
portion  of  our  operating  expenses  are  incurred  in  foreign  currencies  which  may  impact  the  comparability  of  our 
quarterly and yearly trends.

Quarterly Other (Expense) Income Trends

Historically, there have been no consistent trends associated with other (expense) income as changes are impacted 
by fluctuations in the fair value of our equity investments in public companies with readily determinable fair values, 
observable  changes  or  impairments  associated  with  our  equity  investments  in  private  companies  without  readily 
determinable  fair  values,  changes  in  the  fair  value  of  our  investments  in  convertible  notes  of  private  companies, 

36

foreign exchange rates, and interest rates. The results from these changes may fluctuate from period to period and 
may cause volatility to our earnings as well as impact comparability of our results from period to period.

Key Balance Sheet Information

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities

$ 

5,052,950 

$ 

Total assets

Total liabilities

Total non-current liabilities

10,757,151 

2,518,262 

1,662,254 

7,768,093 

13,340,172 

2,206,831 

1,504,098 

December 31, 2022

December 31, 2021

(in thousands)

Total  assets  decreased  $2.6  billion  as  at  December  31,  2022  compared  to  December  31,  2021,  primarily  due  to  a 
$2.0 billion decrease in equity and other investments due mainly to unrealized losses on our investments in Affirm 
and  Global-E.  The  remaining  decrease  is  driven  by  the  following  changes  in  balances:  a  $2.7  billion  decrease  in 
cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities largely due to the $2.0 billion used for the acquisition of Deliverr 
and $635.2 million used to purchase equity and other investments; a $1.5 billion increase in goodwill and a $251.7 
million increase in intangible assets due mainly to the acquisition of Deliverr, which largely offsets the change in 
total assets caused by the previously mentioned cash used for the acquisition; a $158.8 million increase in right-of-
use  assets  due  mainly  to  the  commencement  of  warehouse  leases;  a  $109.4  million  increase  in  merchant  cash 
advances, loans and related receivables largely due to an expansion of our Capital offerings and programs; an $80.8 
million  increase  in  trade  and  other  receivables;  $36.4  million  increase  in  other  current  assets,  a  $25.3  million 
increase in property and equipment due mainly to purchases of leasehold improvements, computer hardware and the 
acquisition of Deliverr, offset by depreciation in the period; a $7.5 million decrease in deferred tax assets and; a $0.3 
million decrease in income taxes receivable.

Total liabilities increased by $311.4 million, principally as a result of a $220.8 million increase in lease liabilities 
due mainly to the commencement of warehouse leases, a $183.7 million increase in deferred revenue mainly due to 
the  non-cash  consideration  received  for  services  rendered  in  conjunction  with  our  partnership  with  Global-E  and 
private companies, a $75.9 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities due mainly to the accruals for 
litigation contingencies, offset by $167.1 million decrease in deferred tax liabilities and a $4.1 million decrease in 
income taxes payable.

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

To date, we have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities as well as the sale of the 
Notes, raising approximately $7.8 billion, net of issuance costs, from investors. 

In September 2022, due to the expiry of our previous short-form base shelf prospectus, we filed a new short-form 
base  shelf  prospectus  with  the  securities  commissions  in  each  of  the  provinces  and  territories  of  Canada,  except 
Quebec,  and  a  corresponding  shelf  registration  statement  on  Form  F-10  with  the  U.S.  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission. This shelf prospectus and registration statement allows Shopify to offer an unlimited amount of Class 
A  subordinate  voting  shares,  preferred  shares,  debt  securities,  warrants,  subscription  receipts,  units,  or  any 
combination  thereof,  from  time  to  time  during  the  25-month  period  that  the  shelf  prospectus  is  effective,  which 
commenced September 9, 2022.

In  February  2021,  the  Company  completed  a  public  offering  in  which  it  issued  and  sold  11,800,000  Class  A 
subordinate voting shares at a public offering price of $131.50 per share, adjusted to give effect to the Share Split. 
The Company received total net proceeds of $1.5 billion after deducting offering fees and expenses of $10.5 million.

Our  principal  cash  requirements  are  for  working  capital  and  capital  expenditures.  Excluding  current  deferred 
revenue,  working  capital  at  December  31,  2022  was  $5.5  billion.  As  a  result  of  our  new  employee  compensation 
program, there is a potential for an increase in cash usage as employees have the ability to elect how much of their 

37

 
 
 
 
 
 
total  compensation  will  be  in  the  form  of  cash  versus  stock-based  compensation  awards.  Given  the  ongoing  cash 
generated from operations and our existing cash and cash equivalents, we believe there is sufficient liquidity to meet 
our  current  and  planned  financial  obligations  over  the  next  12  months.  Our  future  financing  requirements  will 
depend on many factors including our growth rate, subscription renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending 
to  support  development  of  our  platform,  the  expansion  of  sales  and  marketing  activities,  the  macroeconomic 
conditions  and  overall  levels  of  consumer  spending  on  goods,  and  potential  mergers,  strategic  investments  and 
acquisitions activity. Although we currently are not a party to any material undisclosed agreement and do not have 
any understanding with any third parties with respect to potential material investments in, or material acquisitions of, 
businesses or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us 
to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. 

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities

Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities decreased by $2.7 billion to $5.1 billion as at December 31, 2022 
from $7.8 billion as at December 31, 2021, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Deliverr, the purchase of equity 
and other investments and cash used in our operating activities.

Cash equivalents and marketable securities include money market funds, repurchase agreements, U.S. and Canadian 
federal bonds and agency securities, and corporate bonds and commercial paper, all maturing within the 12 months 
from December 31, 2022.

The following table summarizes our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as at December 31, 2022 
and  2021  as  well  as  our  operating,  investing  and  financing  activities  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2022  and 
2021:  

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (end of year)

Net cash (used in) provided by:

Operating activities

Investing activities

Financing activities

Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents

Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

Change in marketable securities

$ 

$ 

Years ended December 31,

2022

2021

(in thousands)

5,052,950 

$ 

7,768,093 

(136,448) 

$ 

535,711 

(718,567) 

(2,379,073) 

17,549 

(16,198) 

(853,664) 
(1,861,479) 

1,649,762 

(7,005) 

(200,605) 
1,580,731 

Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities

$ 

(2,715,143) 

$ 

1,380,126 

Cash Flows From Operating Activities 

Our  largest  source  of  operating  cash  is  from  merchant  solutions.  Within  merchant  solutions,  the  largest  source  of 
cash flows are Shopify Payments processing fee arrangements, which are received on a daily basis as transactions 
are processed. We also generate significant cash flows from our subscription solutions with subscription revenues 
being  our  single  largest  source  of  cash  flows.  These  payments  are  typically  paid  to  us  at  the  beginning  of  the 
applicable  subscription  period,  except  for  our  Shopify  Plus  merchants  who  typically  pay  us  at  the  end  of  their 
monthly  billing  cycle.  Our  primary  uses  of  cash  from  operating  activities  are  for  employee-related  expenditures, 
third-party  payment  processing  fees,  advancing  funds  to  merchants  through  Shopify  Capital,  third-party  shipping 
and fulfillment partners, marketing programs, and outsourced hosting costs. 

For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $136.4 million. This was primarily as a 
result  of  our  net  loss  of  $3.5  billion,  which  once  adjusted  for  a  net  loss  on  equity  and  other  investments  of  $2.9 

38

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
billion,  $549.1  million  of  stock-based  compensation  expense,  a  $186.6  million  decrease  in  net  deferred  income 
taxes, $121.5 million in revenue related to non-cash consideration, $90.5 million of amortization and depreciation, 
$84.3  million  of  impairment  of  right-of-use  assets  and  leasehold  improvements,  a  $73.6  million  increase  of  our 
provision for transaction and loan losses, an unrealized foreign exchange loss of $11.7 million, and $2.3 million of 
amortization of debt offering costs related to the Notes offering consumed $38.2 million of cash flows. 

Cash flows of $158.7 million were used by the following increases in operating assets: $104.5 million in trade and 
other  receivables,  $30.8  million  in  other  current  assets,  and  $23.4  million  in  merchant  cash  advances  and  related 
receivables as we continued to grow Shopify Capital. Cash flows of $60.4 million were provided by the following 
changes  in  operating  liabilities:  a  $305.2  million  increase  in  deferred  revenue  due  mainly  to  the  non-cash 
consideration  received  in  conjunction  with  our  partnerships  with  Global-E  and  private  companies,  of  which  the 
initial value of the total non-cash consideration received in exchange for these services was $273.2 million, and a 
$36.5 million increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities offset by a $4.2 million net change in lease assets 
and liabilities and a $3.9 million net change in income tax assets and liabilities.

For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by operating activities was $535.7 million. This was primarily 
as  a  result  of  our  net  income  of  $2.9  billion,  which  once  adjusted  for  a  net  unrealized  gain  on  equity  and  other 
investments of $2.9 billion, $330.8 million of stock-based compensation expense, a $191.0 million increase in net 
deferred income taxes, $66.3 million of amortization and depreciation, $58.4 million in revenue related to non-cash 
consideration, a $43.8 million increase of our provision for transaction and loan losses, $30.1 million of impairment 
of  right-of-use  assets  and  leasehold  improvements,  an  unrealized  foreign  exchange  loss  of  $4.6  million,  and  $2.3 
million of amortization of debt offering costs related to the Notes offering, contributed $665.4 million of positive 
cash flows. Additional cash flows of $227.6 million were provided by the following changes in operating liabilities: 
a $309.3 million increase in deferred revenue due mainly to the non-cash consideration received in conjunction with 
our  partnership  with  Global-E  and  private  companies,  of  which  the  initial  value  of  the  non-cash  consideration 
received  in  exchange  for  services  was  $268.1  million;  a  $138.2  million  increase  in  accounts  payable  and  accrued 
liabilities;  a  $45.3  million  net  change  in  income  tax  assets  and  liabilities;  and  a  $2.9  million  net  change  in  lease 
assets and liabilities. Cash used of $357.2 million resulted from the following increases in operating assets: $234.8 
million in merchant cash advances; $72.3 million in trade and other receivables, and $50.2 million in other current 
assets.

Cash Flows From Investing Activities 

Cash flows provided by, or used in, investing activities are primarily related to the sale and purchase of marketable 
securities,  business  acquisitions,  purchases,  originations  and  repayments  of  loans,  purchases  of  equity  and  other 
investments, and purchases of leasehold improvements and computer equipment. 

Net cash used in investing activities in the year ended December 31, 2022 was $718.6 million, which was driven by 
$1.8  billion  used  mainly  for  the  Deliverr  business  acquisition,  $635.2  million  used  to  purchase  equity  and  other 
investments, $158.7 million used for purchases and originations of loans, net of repayments and $50.0 million used 
to purchase property and equipment, which consisted mainly of leasehold improvements and computer equipment, 
offset by net maturities of $1.9 billion in marketable securities.

Net cash used in investing activities in the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2.4 billion, which was driven by net 
purchases  of  $1.6  billion  in  marketable  securities,  $650.2  million  used  to  purchase  equity  and  other  investments, 
$59.6  million  used  for  the  Donde  business  acquisition  and  other  acquisitions,  $50.8  million  used  to  purchase 
property and equipment, and $31.3 million used for purchases and originations of loans, net of repayments.

Cash Flows From Financing Activities 

Cash flows from financing activities are primarily related to public offerings, and exercises of stock options. 

39

Net  cash  provided  by  financing  activities  in  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022  was  $17.5  million  driven  by 
proceeds from the issuance of Class A subordinate voting shares and Class B restricted voting shares as a result of 
stock option exercises. This compares to $1.6 billion for the same period in 2021, driven by $1.5 billion raised in our 
February 2021 public equity offering, and by $108.6 million which related to stock option exercises.

Contractual Obligations

Our  principal  commitments  consist  of  our  Notes  and  obligations  under  our  operating  leases  for  office,  warehouse 
and commercial space. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022:  

Less  Than 
1 Year

Payments Due by Period  
3 to 5 
Years

More Than 
5 Years

1 to 3 
Years

Total

Convertible senior notes(1)
Bank indebtedness

Operating lease and unconditional 

purchase obligations(2)
Total contractual obligations

(in thousands)

$ 

1,150 

$  922,300 

$ 

— 

— 

$ 

— 

— 

— 

— 

$  923,450 

— 

53,142 

  174,748 

  174,327 

  494,752 

  896,969 

$  54,292 

$ 1,097,048 

$  174,327 

$  494,752 

$ 1,820,419 

(1) $920,000 of the payments due in one to three years may be settled in Class A subordinate voting shares instead of cash, at our option.
(2) Consists of payment obligations under our office, warehouse and commercial space leases.

Litigation and Loss Contingencies

As discussed under "Fiscal Year 2022 Events", on August 31, 2022, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the District 
of  Delaware  returned  a  verdict  finding  that  Shopify  infringed  three  web  technology  patents  owned  by  Express 
Mobile, Inc. We have challenged the verdict through post-trial motions and the Plaintiff has moved for interest on 
the amount of the verdict.

On  December  1,  2021,  five  publishers  of  educational  materials  and  two  of  their  respective  parent  companies  (the 
Plaintiffs)  filed  a  claim  against  the  Company  in  the  U.S.  District  Court  for  the  Eastern  District  of  Virginia  for 
contributory  and  vicarious  copyright  infringement  and  contributory  trademark  infringement.  The  action  has  been 
settled amicably between the parties, and terms of the settlement agreement are confidential. The case was dismissed 
with prejudice on October 5, 2022.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We  have  no  material  off-balance  sheet  arrangements,  other  than  operating  leases  and  contingencies  (which  have 
been disclosed above under "Contractual Obligations" and "Litigation and Loss Contingencies"). 

Risks and Uncertainties

We are exposed to a variety of risks, including foreign currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the fair values of 
our equity and other investments, changes in interest rates, concentration of credit and inflation. We regularly assess 
currency, interest rate and inflation risks to minimize any adverse effects on our business as a result of those factors. 
We  are  also  exposed  to  other  COVID-19  post-pandemic  related  uncertainties.  For  further  discussion  of  risks  and 
uncertainties see "Risk Factors" in our annual information form.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

While the majority of our revenues, cost of revenues, and operating expenses are denominated in USD, a significant 
portion  are  denominated  in  foreign  currencies.  Due  to  offering  Shopify  Payments,  Shopify  Capital,  subscriptions, 
and  other  billing  to  select  countries  in  local  currency,  a  significant  proportion  of  revenue  transactions  are 

40

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
denominated in GBP, EUR, and CAD. As our operations continue to be heavily weighted in CAD and as operations 
continue  to  expand  internationally,  a  significant  proportion  of  operating  expenses  are  also  incurred  in  the 
aforementioned  foreign  currencies.  To  help  mitigate  the  impacts  associated  with  foreign  currency  fluctuations  on 
future  cash  flows  from  operating  expenses,  we  maintain  a  portfolio  of  foreign  exchange  derivative  products 
designated as hedging instruments.

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rates

The following non-GAAP financial measure converts our revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses, and (loss) 
income from operations using the comparative period's monthly average exchange rates:

Revenues

Cost of revenues

Operating expenses

Three months ended December 31,

2022

2021

At Prior Year 
Effective Rates (1)

Exchange Rate 
Effect (2)

GAAP Amounts 
as Reported

GAAP Amounts 
As Reported

$ 

1,765,116  $ 

(30,138) $ 

1,734,978 

$ 

1,380,024 

(in thousands)

(954,437)  

(1,013,189)  

17,967   

25,932   

(936,470) 

(987,257) 

(687,365) 

(678,255) 

14,404 

(Loss) income from operations

$ 

(202,510) $ 

13,761  $ 

(188,749) 

$ 

Years ended December 31,

2022

2021

At Prior Year 
Effective Rates (1)

Exchange Rate 
Effect (2)

GAAP Amounts 
as Reported

GAAP Amounts 
As Reported

(in thousands)

Revenues

Cost of revenues

Operating expenses

$ 

5,676,521  $ 

(76,657) $ 

5,599,864 

$ 

4,611,856 

(2,891,956)  

(3,619,004)  

46,211   

42,586   

(2,845,745) 

(3,576,418) 

(2,130,712) 

(2,212,501) 

(Loss) income from operations

$ 

(834,439) $ 

12,140  $ 

(822,299) 

$ 

268,643 

(1)  Represents  the  outcome  that  would  have  resulted  if  the  comparative  period's  effective  foreign  exchange  rates  are  applied  to  the  current 
reporting period.
(2) Represents the increase or decrease in GAAP amounts reported resulting from using the comparative period's effective foreign exchange rates. 
The exchange rate effect is primarily driven by fluctuations in CAD, EUR, and GBP foreign exchange rates.

This effect of foreign exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations disclosure is a supplement to our 
consolidated  financial  statements,  which  are  prepared  and  presented  in  accordance  with  U.S.  GAAP.  We  have 
provided  the  above  non-GAAP  disclosure  as  we  believe  it  presents  a  clear  comparison  of  our  period  to  period 
operating  results  by  removing  the  impact  of  fluctuations  in  foreign  exchange  rates  and  to  assist  investors  in 
understanding our financial and operating performance. Non-GAAP financial measures are not recognized measures 
for  financial  statement  presentation  under  U.S.  GAAP,  do  not  have  standardized  meanings,  and  may  not  be 
comparable to similar measures presented by other public companies. Such non-GAAP financial measures should be 
considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, the corresponding measures calculated in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP.

Equity and Other Investments

We  hold  equity  and  other  investments  that  are  subject  to  a  wide  variety  of  market-related  risks  that  could 
substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. As at December 31, 2022, we had equity and other 
investments  in  public  and  private  companies  totaling  $2.0  billion.  Our  equity  and  other  investments  in  publicly 
traded companies, which primarily relate to Affirm and Global-E, representing $648.0 million of our investments, 

41

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. Our equity investments in private companies, 
representing $1.1 billion of our investments, are recorded using the measurement alternative and are assessed each 
reporting period for observable price changes and impairments, which may involve estimates and judgments given 
the lack of readily available market data. Certain equity investments in private companies are in the early stages of 
development and are inherently risky due to their lack of operational history. Our debt investments in convertible 
notes  of  private  companies  are  recorded  at  fair  value  and  represent  $221.0  million  of  our  investments,  which  are 
impacted by the underlying entities' valuations and interest rates. The results from these changes may fluctuate from 
period to period and may cause volatility to our earnings as well as impact comparability of our results from period 
to period.

Interest Rate Sensitivity

We had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in our cash management program totaling $5.1 billion as of 
December  31,  2022.  The  cash  and  cash  equivalents  are  held  for  operations  and  working  capital  purposes.  Our 
investments within cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are made for capital preservation purposes. We 
do not enter into these types of investments for trading or speculative purposes. 

Our cash equivalents and our portfolio of marketable securities are subject to market risk due to changes in interest 
rates. Fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates. Our future 
investment  income  may  fall  short  of  our  expectations  due  to  changes  in  interest  rates  or  we  may  suffer  losses  in 
principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, 
because  we  classify  our  debt  securities  as  "held  to  maturity,"  no  gains  or  losses  are  recognized  due  to  changes  in 
interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other than 
temporary. 

In  July  2021,  we  invested  $200.0  million  in  a  private  company  through  the  purchase  of  convertible  notes.  This 
investment is classified as an available-for-sale debt security, for which we have elected to account for under the fair 
value option. The investment is carried at fair value at each balance sheet date and any movements in the fair value 
are recognized in net (loss) income. The fair value is determined based on a binomial pricing model in which the 
underlying entity's valuation and interest rates impact the market value of the investment.

In September 2020, we issued $920.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes. The Notes have a fixed annual 
interest rate of 0.125%; accordingly, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the Notes. However, the fair 
market value of the Notes is exposed to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of our fixed interest rate 
Notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. In addition, the fair market value of the 
Notes will generally fluctuate as the price of our Class A subordinate voting shares fluctuates. On our balance sheet, 
we carry the Notes at face value less debt offering costs, plus any amortization of offering costs, and we present the 
fair value for required disclosure purposes only.

Concentration of Credit Risk 

The  Company’s  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  marketable  securities,  trade  and  other  receivables,  merchant  cash 
advances,  loans  and  related  receivables,  and  foreign  exchange  derivative  products  subject  the  Company  to 
concentrations of credit risk. Management mitigates this risk associated with cash and cash equivalents by making 
deposits and entering into foreign exchange derivative products only with large banks and financial institutions that 
are considered to be highly creditworthy. Management mitigates the risks associated with marketable securities by 
adhering to its investment policy, which stipulates minimum rating requirements, maximum investment exposures 
and maximum maturities. Due to the Company’s diversified merchant base, there is no particular concentration of 
credit risk related to the Company’s trade and other receivables and merchant cash advances and loans receivable. 
Trade and other receivables and merchant cash advances and loans receivable are monitored on an ongoing basis to 
ensure  timely  collection  of  amounts.  The  Company  notes  that  its  exposure  to  collectibility  risk  by  customers 
impacted  by  the  Russian  Invasion  of  Ukraine  is  financially  immaterial.  The  Company  has  mitigated  some  of  the 
risks associated with Shopify Capital by opening insurance policies with Export Development Canada ("EDC"), a 
wholly-owned  corporation  of  the  Government  of  Canada,  who  is  AAA  rated  as  at  December  31,  2022.  The 

42

Company’s  policies  cover  certain  merchant  cash  advances  and  loans,  subject  under  certain  policies  to  minimum 
claim  requirements  and  regional  restrictions.  The  Company  pays  EDC  a  monthly  premium  based  on  total  eligible 
dollars advanced, and records this as general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations 
and comprehensive (loss) income. All policies include a deductible set at either a specified dollar loss threshold or 
calculated as a percentage of eligible advances issued. After considering the Company’s deductible and the insurer's 
maximum  liability  under  the  policies,  the  majority  of  the  Company's  gross  outstanding  balance  of  merchant  cash 
advances and loans as at December 31, 2022 is covered. The receivable related to insurance recoveries, if  any, is 
included  in  the  merchant  cash  advances,  loans  and  related  receivables  balance.  There  are  no  receivables  from 
individual merchants accounting for 10% or more of revenues or receivables.

Inflation Risk

We are subject to inflation risk that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of 
operations.  If  our  costs  were  to  become  subject  to  significant  inflationary  pressures,  we  may  not  be  able  to  fully 
offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial 
condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our merchants are also subject to risks associated with inflationary 
pressures  that  could  impact  their  business  and  financial  condition.  These  pressures  could  subsequently  result  in 
impacts to our GMV and further affect our business.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

All control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Accordingly, even disclosure controls 
and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting determined to be effective can only provide reasonable 
assurance of achieving their control objectives with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Management of the Company, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is 
responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  (as  defined  by  the  United  States 
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  ("SEC")  in  Rule  13a-15(e)  under  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as 
amended  (the  "Exchange  Act"))  for  the  Company  to  ensure  that  material  information  relating  to  the  Company, 
including its consolidated subsidiaries, that is required to be made known to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer by others within the Company and disclosed by the Company in reports filed or submitted by it 
under the Exchange Act is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the 
SEC's rules and forms; and (ii) accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

We,  including  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief  Financial  Officer,  have  evaluated  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Company's  disclosure  controls  and  procedures  as  of  December  31,  2022  and  have  concluded  that  the  Company's 
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2022.

Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Management of the Company, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, 
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over the Company's financial reporting. 

Internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the  reliability  of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted 
accounting principles.

We,  including  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief  Financial  Officer,  have  assessed  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  in  accordance  with  Internal  Control  -  Integrated  Framework 
(2013)  issued  by  the  Committee  of  Sponsoring  Organizations  of  the  Treadway  Commission  ("COSO").  Based  on 
this  assessment,  we,  including  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and  Chief  Financial  Officer,  have  determined  that  the 

43

Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as at December 31, 2022. Additionally, based on 
our  assessment,  we  determined  that  there  were  no  material  weaknesses  in  the  Company's  internal  control  over 
financial reporting as at December 31, 2022.

We have excluded Deliverr, Inc. from our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as at December 31, 
2022 because they were acquired by the Company in a purchase business combination during 2022. Deliverr, Inc. is 
a wholly-owned subsidiary whose total assets and total revenues represent 1% and 2%, respectively, of the related 
consolidated financial statement amounts as at and for the year ended December 31, 2022.

Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The  effectiveness  of  the  Company's  internal  control  over  financial  reporting  as  at  December  31,  2022  has  been 
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report 
on the audited consolidated financial statements for December 31, 2022.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  we  migrated  certain  financial  reporting  systems  and  their  accompanying 
financial  information  between  cloud  environments,  which  included  changes  to  our  underlying  information 
technology infrastructure and internal controls over financial reporting.

Other than the system migration as described above, there were no changes in the Company's internal control over 
financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal 
control over financial reporting. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 

We  prepare  our  consolidated  financial  statements  in  accordance  with  U.S.  GAAP.  In  the  preparation  of  these 
consolidated  financial  statements,  we  are  required  to  make  estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported 
amounts  of  assets,  liabilities,  revenues,  costs  and  expenses  and  related  disclosures.  To  the  extent  that  there  are 
material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would 
be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under 
the circumstances, and we re-evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this 
type  as  significant  accounting  policies  and  estimates,  which  we  discuss  below  and  in  further  detail  in  Note  3  - 
Significant Accounting Policies of our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 
2022.

Revenue Recognition

Our sources of revenue consist of subscription solutions and merchant solutions. Arrangements with merchants do 
not provide the merchant with the right to take possession of the software supporting our hosting platform at any 
time  and  are  therefore  accounted  for  as  service  contracts.  Our  subscription  service  contracts  do  not  provide  for 
refunds or any other rights of return to merchants in the event of cancellations.

The  Company  recognizes  revenue  to  depict  the  transfer  of  promised  services  to  its  customers  in  an  amount  that 
reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services by applying 
the following steps:  

•

•

•

•

Identify the contract with a customer;  

Identify the performance obligations in the contract;  

Determine the transaction price; 

Allocate the transaction price; and  

44

•

Recognize revenue when, or as, the Company satisfies a performance obligation. 

The Company follows the guidance provided in ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, for determining 
whether  the  Company  is  the  principal  or  an  agent  in  arrangements  with  customers  that  involve  another  party  that 
contributes to providing a specified service to a customer. In these instances, the Company determines whether it has 
promised to provide the specified service itself (as principal) or to arrange for the specified service to be provided by 
another party (as an agent). This determination depends on the facts and circumstances of each arrangement and, in 
some instances, involves significant judgment. The Company recognizes revenue from Shopify Shipping, the sales 
of  apps,  the  sale  of  themes,  card  services  from  Shopify  Balance  and  Shop  Pay  Installments  on  a  net  basis  as  the 
Company  is  not  primarily  responsible  for  the  fulfillment  of  the  promised  service,  does  not  have  control  of  the 
promised service, and does not have full discretion in establishing prices for the promised service and therefore is 
the  agent  in  the  arrangement  with  customers.  All  other  revenue  is  reported  on  a  gross  basis,  as  the  Company  has 
determined it is the principal in the respective arrangements. 

Inputs used to Fair Value Equity and Other Investments without Readily Determinable Fair Values 

In  connection  with  certain  revenue  contracts  with  customers,  the  Company,  from  time  to  time,  receives  non-cash 
consideration in the form of equity investments in the customer as a component of the transaction price. When the 
transaction  price  includes  non-cash  consideration,  the  non-cash  consideration  is  measured  as  the  fair  value  at  the 
inception  of  the  contract,  which  from  time  to  time,  requires  the  determination  of  probabilities  of  achieving 
performance milestones within the contract. Any changes in fair value or impairment of the equity investments after 
contract  inception  are  excluded  from  revenue,  and  classified  as  "other  (expense)  income,  net"  in  the  consolidated 
statement  of  operations  and  comprehensive  (loss)  income.  The  estimated  fair  value  of  such  consideration  is 
determined using multiple valuation techniques, including the income approach and the market approach, as well as 
significant inputs, including revenue growth rates, revenue multiples based on market comparables and a discount 
for lack of marketability. 

In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  we  impaired  certain  equity  investments  without  readily  determinable  fair 
values.  Estimates  and  judgments  are  involved  in  applying  the  measurement  alternative  associated  with  equity  and 
other  investments  without  readily  determinable  fair  values,  including  our  assessment  to  evaluate  whether  an 
investment is impaired through analyzing market conditions, business results and other qualitative measures and to 
measure the amount of that impairment, when applicable, by developing certain key assumptions, including revenue 
growth rates, revenue multiples based on market comparables and a discount for lack of marketability.

Inputs used for Impairment of Right-of-Use Assets and Leasehold Improvements

The  carrying  values  of  right-of-use  assets  and  leasehold  improvements  are  reviewed  for  impairment  whenever 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. The 
determination of whether any impairment exists includes a comparison of estimated undiscounted future cash flows 
anticipated  to  be  generated  over  the  remaining  life  of  an  asset  or  asset  group  to  their  net  carrying  value.  If  the 
estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset or asset group are less than the carrying value, an 
impairment loss will be recorded based on the estimated fair value. 

In  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  we  impaired  certain  right-of-use  assets  and  leasehold  improvement  which 
required  us  to  develop  certain  key  estimates  including,  but  not  limited  to,  estimated  future  cash  flows  associated 
with terminating or subletting the respective asset groups.

Provision for Credit Losses Related to Merchant Cash Advances and Loans

Merchant cash advance receivables and loans represent the aggregate amount of Shopify Capital related receivables 
owed  by  merchants  as  of  the  balance  sheet  date,  net  of  an  allowance  for  expected  credit  losses.  The  Company 
estimates  the  provision  based  on  an  assessment  of  various  factors,  including  historical  trends,  merchants'  gross 
merchandise  volume  (GMV),  supportable  forecasted  information  and  other  factors,  including  macroeconomic 
factors, that may affect the merchants' ability to make future payments on the receivables. Additions to the provision 
are  reflected  in  current  operating  results,  while  charges  against  the  provision  are  made  when  losses  are  incurred. 

45

These  additions  are  classified  within  transaction  and  loan  losses  on  the  consolidated  statements  of  operations  and 
comprehensive  (loss)  income.  Recoveries  are  reflected  as  a  reduction  in  the  allowance  for  credit  losses  related  to 
merchant cash advances and loans when the recovery occurs.

Business Combinations

As a result of the recent acquisitions, we consider accounting for business combinations under ASC 805, Business 
Combinations,  to  be  a  critical  accounting  policy  and  estimate  as  it  requires  management  to  make  significant 
estimates and assumptions, including the valuation of intangible assets acquired which required us to develop certain 
key assumptions, including royalty rates and revenue growth rates. Although we believe that the assumptions and 
estimates we have made have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and 
information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated 
events  and  circumstances  may  occur  that  may  affect  the  accuracy  or  validity  of  such  assumptions,  estimates,  or 
actual results.

Loss Contingencies

The  Company  records  accruals  for  loss  contingencies  when  losses  are  probable  and  reasonably  estimable.  The 
Company evaluates developments in legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously 
accrued and makes adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and 
the estimated amount of a loss or potential loss. The Company may be unable to reasonably estimate the reasonably 
possible  loss  or  range  of  loss  for  a  particular  legal  contingency  for  various  reasons,  including,  among  others, 
because: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate; (ii) the proceedings are in the relative early stages; (iii) there is 
uncertainty as to the outcome of pending proceedings (including motions and appeals); (iv) there is uncertainty as to 
the likelihood of settlement and the outcome of any negotiations with respect thereto; (v) there remain significant 
factual issues to be determined or resolved; (vi) the relevant law is unsettled; or (vii) the proceedings involve novel 
or untested legal theories. In such instances, there may be considerable uncertainty regarding the ultimate resolution 
of such matters, including the likelihood or magnitude of a possible eventual loss, if any.

Shares Outstanding

Shopify is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: SHOP) and on the Toronto 
Stock  Exchange  (TSX:  SHOP).  As  of  February  10,  2023  there  were  1,197,171,800  Class  A  subordinate  voting 
shares issued and outstanding, 79,431,667 Class B restricted voting shares issued and outstanding, and 1 Founder 
share issued and outstanding.

As  of  February  10,  2023  there  were  1,012,718  options  outstanding  under  the  Company’s  Fourth  Amended  and 
Restated Incentive Stock Option Plan, of which 1,012,718 were vested as of such date. Each such option is or will 
become exercisable for one Class B restricted voting share. As of February 10, 2023 there were 10,671,657 options 
outstanding under the Company’s Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan, of which 7,167,275 were vested as of 
such  date.  Each  such  option  is  or  will  become  exercisable  for  one  Class  A  subordinate  voting  share.  As  of 
February 10, 2023 there were 128,179 options outstanding under the 6 River Systems 2016 Amended and Restated 
Stock  Option  and  Grant  Plan,  which  the  Company  assumed  on  closing  of  its  acquisition  of  6RS  on  October  17, 
2019. Of these options, 127,866 were vested as of such date. Each option is or will become exercisable for one Class 
A subordinate voting share. As of February 10, 2023 there were 1,672,164 options outstanding under the Deliverr, 
Inc 2017 Stock Option and Grant Plan, which the Company assumed on closing of its acquisition of Deliverr on July 
8, 2022. Of these options, 415,144 were vested as of such date. Each option is or will become exercisable for one 
Class A subordinate voting share.

As of February 10, 2023 there were 6,871,582 Restricted Share Units ("RSUs") and 11,413 Deferred Share Units 
("DSUs") outstanding under the Company’s Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan. Each such RSU or 
DSU  will  vest  as  one  Class  A  subordinate  voting  share.  As  of  February  10,  2023  there  were  356,005  RSUs 
outstanding under the Deliverr, Inc 2017 Stock Option and Grant Plan, which the Company assumed on closing of 
its acquisition of Deliverr on July 8, 2022. Each such RSU will vest as one Class A subordinate voting share.

46