# Waste Connections, Inc.
# 来源：Annual MD&A - English.pdf (710a9bbbc747903a)

The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for 
Waste Connections, Inc. is also included in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 filed 
on SEDAR on February 16, 2023 in its entirety. 

ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT’S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL  CONDITION  AND  RESULTS  OF 

OPERATIONS 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related 

notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We make statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking in nature.  These include: 



Statements regarding our landfills, including capacity, duration, special projects, demand for and pricing of
recyclables, landfill alternatives and related capital expenditures;

 Discussion  of  competition,  loss  of  contracts,  price  increases  and  additional  exclusive  and/or  long-term

collection service arrangements;









Forecasts of cash flows necessary for operations and free cash flow to reduce leverage as well as our ability
to draw on our credit facility and access the capital markets to refinance or expand;

Statements regarding our ability to access capital resources or credit markets at all or on favorable terms;

Plans for, and the amount of, certain capital expenditures for our existing and newly acquired properties and
equipment;

Statements regarding fuel, oil and natural gas demand, prices, and price volatility;

 Assessments of regulatory developments and potential changes in environmental, health, safety and tax laws

and regulations; and

 Other statements on a variety of topics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, credit risk of customers,
seasonality, labor/pension costs and labor union activity, operational and safety risks, acquisitions, litigation
results, goodwill impairments, insurance costs and cybersecurity threats.

These statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “intends,” 
“may,”  “might,”  “will,”  “could,”  “should”  or  “anticipates,”  or  the  negative  thereof  or  comparable  terminology,  or  by 
discussions of strategy.  

Our business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties and, consequently, actual results may 
differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ 
from those projected include, but are not limited to, those listed under the heading “ITEM 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere 
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

There may be additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial that 
could  have  an  adverse  impact  on  our  business.  We  make  no  commitment  to  revise  or  update  any  forward-looking 
statements to reflect events or circumstances that may change, unless required under applicable securities laws. 

Industry Overview 

The solid waste industry is local and highly competitive in nature, requiring substantial labor and capital resources. 
We  compete  for  collection  accounts  primarily  on  the  basis  of  price  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  the  quality  of  service,  and 
compete for landfill business on the basis of tipping fees, geographic location and quality of operations. The solid waste 
industry has been consolidating and continues to consolidate as a result of a number of factors, including the increasing 
costs and complexity associated with waste management operations and regulatory compliance. Many small independent 
operators and municipalities lack the capital resources, management, operating skills and technical expertise necessary to 
operate effectively in such an environment. The consolidation trend has caused solid waste companies to operate larger 

1 

landfills that have complementary collection routes that can use company-owned disposal capacity. Controlling the point 
of transfer from haulers to landfills has become increasingly important as landfills continue to close and disposal capacity 
moves farther from the collection markets it serves. 

Generally,  the  most  profitable  operators  within  the  solid  waste  industry  are  those  companies  that  are  vertically 
integrated  or  enter  into  long-term  collection  contracts.  A  vertically  integrated  operator  will  benefit  from:   (1) the 
internalization of waste, which is bringing waste to a company-owned landfill; (2) the ability to charge third-party haulers 
tipping fees either at landfills or at transfer stations; and (3) the efficiencies gained by being able to aggregate and process 
waste at a transfer station prior to landfilling. 

The demand for our E&P waste services depends on the continued demand for, and production of, oil and natural gas. 
Crude oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile, including as a result of macroeconomic and geopolitical 
conditions, which may impact levels of exploration and production activity, with a corresponding impact to our E&P waste 
activity.    Most  recently,  in  2022,  sustained  increases  in  prices  of  crude  oil  as  a  result  of  inflationary  pressures,  the 
uncertainty associated with the Ukrainian conflict and any related bans on oil sales from Russia or supply chain disruptions 
as  recently  experienced  contributed  to  increased  levels  of  drilling  activity  and  demand  for  our  E&P  waste  services. 
Conversely, in 2020 and 2021, a significant decline in oil prices driven by both surplus production and supply, as well as 
the decrease in demand caused by factors including the COVID-19 pandemic, resulted in decreased levels of E&P drilling 
activity and a corresponding decrease in demand for our E&P waste services.  Additionally, across the industry there was 
uncertainty regarding future demand for oil and related services, as noted by several energy companies, many of whom 
are customers of our E&P waste services.  These energy companies wrote down the values of their oil and gas assets in 
anticipation of the potential for the decarbonization of their energy product mix given an increased global focus on reducing 
greenhouse gases and addressing climate change.  At that time, the uncertainty regarding global demand had a significant 
impact on the investment and operating plans of our E&P waste customers in the basins where we operate.   

If the prices of crude oil and natural gas substantially decline, it could lead to declines in the level of drilling activity 
and demand for our E&P waste services, which could result in the recognition of additional impairment charges on our 
intangible assets and property and equipment associated with our E&P waste operations.  See the section Impairments of 
Property and Equipment and Finite-Lived Intangible Assets in Note 3, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of 
our  consolidated  financial  statements  included  in  Item 8  of  this  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for  a  discussion  of  the 
impairment charges recorded during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. 

Executive Overview 

We are an integrated solid waste services company that provides non-hazardous waste collection, transfer and disposal 
services, along with resource recovery primarily through recycling and renewable fuels generation, in mostly exclusive 
and secondary markets across 43 states in the U.S. and six provinces in Canada. Waste Connections also provides E&P 
waste services in several basins across the U.S., as well as intermodal services for the movement of cargo and solid waste 
containers in the Pacific Northwest. 

We generally seek to avoid highly competitive, large urban markets and instead target markets where we can attain 
high  market  share  either through exclusive contracts,  vertical integration or asset positioning. In  markets  where  waste 
collection services are provided under exclusive arrangements, or where waste disposal is municipally owned or funded 
or available at multiple municipal sources, we believe that controlling the waste stream by providing collection services 
under exclusive arrangements is often more important to our growth and profitability than owning or operating landfills. 
We also target niche markets, like non-hazardous E&P waste treatment, recovery and disposal services. 

The COVID-19 Pandemic’s impact on our Results of Operations 

March  11,  2022  marked  the  two-year  anniversary  of  COVID-19  being  declared  a  global  pandemic  by  the  World 
Health  Organization.  The  related  economic  disruptions  largely  associated  with  closures  or  restrictions  put  into  effect 
following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the first quarter of 2020 resulted in declines in solid waste commercial 
collection, transfer station and landfill volumes, and roll off activity. Throughout the remaining fiscal year 2020 and during 
2021,  solid  waste  revenue  and  reported  volumes  largely  reflected  the  pace  and  shape  of  the  closures  and  subsequent 

2 

reopening  activity,  with  the  timing  and  magnitude  of  recovery  varying  by  market.  Most  of  the  impacts  to  solid  waste 
volumes  associated  with  the  pandemic  have  largely  abated,  with  landfill  volumes  and  roll  off  pulls  returning  to  pre-
pandemic  levels.    In  certain  markets,  commercial  collection  volumes  have  not  returned  to  pre-pandemic  levels.    The 
COVID-19 pandemic also contributed to a decline in demand for and the value of crude oil, which impacted E&P drilling 
activity and resulted in lower E&P waste revenue during 2020 and 2021.  During 2022, E&P waste revenue increased on 
higher levels of drilling activity in several of the major basins. 

Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, protecting the health, welfare and safety of our employees has been our 
top priority. Recognizing the potential for financial hardship and other challenges, we have looked to provide a safety net 
for our employees on issues of income and family health. To that end, since the onset of the pandemic through year-end 
2022, we incurred over $50 million in incremental COVID-19-related costs, primarily supplemental pay and benefits for 
frontline employees, including approximately $10 million during 2022. 

As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent reopening activity, we have also experienced an impact to our 
operating costs as a result of factors including supply chain disruptions and labor constraints, as demand has recovered 
and competition has increased.  As a result, we have incurred incremental costs associated with higher wages, increased 
overtime as a result of higher turnover, and increased reliance on third party services.   

The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in 
future periods will depend largely on future developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak in the U.S. 
and Canada, the rate of vaccinations, the severity of COVID-19 variants, the actions to contain such coronavirus variants, 
and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. 

2022 Financial Performance 

The functional currency of the Company, as the parent corporate entity, and its operating subsidiaries in the United 
States  is  the  U.S.  dollar.  The  functional  currency  of  the  Company’s  Canadian  operations  is  the  Canadian  dollar.  The 
reporting currency of the Company is the U.S. dollar. The Company’s consolidated Canadian dollar financial position is 
translated to U.S. dollars by applying the foreign currency exchange rate in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date. 
The Company’s consolidated Canadian dollar results of operations and cash flows are translated to U.S. dollars by applying 
the average foreign currency exchange rate in effect during the reporting period. The resulting translation adjustments are 
included  in  other  comprehensive  income  or  loss.  Gains  and  losses  from  foreign  currency  transactions  are  included  in 
earnings for the period. 

Operating Results 

Revenues  in  2022  increased  17.2%  to  $7.212  billion  from  $6.151  billion  in  2021.  Acquisitions  closed  during,  or 
subsequent to, the prior year, net of divestitures, accounted for $552.0 million in incremental revenues in 2022.   Excluding 
the impact of such acquisitions, revenues increased 8.3% due predominantly to higher internal growth in solid waste.  Solid 
waste internal growth was positive 7.4%, due to higher price increases and higher surcharges, partially offset by lower 
volumes  and  lower  recycled  commodities.  Pricing  growth  was  9.2%,  with  core  pricing  up  7.7%,  plus  materials  and 
environmental surcharges of positive 1.5%. Volumes decreased by 1.1% due primarily to the purposeful non-renewal of 
two residential hauling contracts, and decreases in the value of recycled commodities resulted in a 0.7% decrease to internal 
solid waste growth. Higher E&P waste activity resulted in a 1.2% increase to overall growth, and increases in landfill gas 
sales, including renewable energy credits, contributed 0.2% to overall growth. 

Net income attributable to Waste Connections increased 35.2% to $835.7 million in 2022, from $618.0 million in 
2021.  In 2022, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP 
financial measure (refer to page 73 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a definition and reconciliation to Net income 
attributable to Waste Connections), increased 15.7% to $2.221 billion, from $1.919 billion in 2021. As a percentage of 
revenue, adjusted EBITDA decreased from 31.2% in 2021, to 30.8% in 2022. This 0.40 percentage point decrease reflects 
a 0.50 percentage point decrease from the margin dilutive impact of acquisitions completed during the period, as price-led 
organic growth in solid waste and higher E&P waste activity offset the impacts of lower recycled commodity values and 
continued inflationary pressures.  Adjusted net income attributable to Waste Connections, a non-GAAP financial measure 

3

(refer to page 74 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for  a definition and reconciliation to Net income attributable to 
Waste Connections), in 2022 increased 16.4% to $985.3 million from $846.6 million in 2021. 

Adjusted Free Cash Flow 

Net cash provided by operating activities increased 19.1% to $2.022 billion in 2022, from $1.698 billion in 2021. 
Capital expenditures for property and equipment increased from $744.3 million in 2021 to $912.7 million in 2022, an 
increase of $168.4 million, or 22.6%. Adjusted free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure (refer to page 72 of this 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for a definition and reconciliation to Net cash provided by operating activities), increased 
by $155 million to $1.165 billion in 2022, from $1.010 billion in 2021. Adjusted free cash flow as a percentage of revenues 
was 16.2% in 2022, as compared to 16.4% in 2021. 

Return of Capital and Distributions to Shareholders 

In 2022, we distributed $668.0 million to shareholders through a combination of cash dividends and share repurchases. 
We paid $243.0 million to shareholders through cash dividends declared by our Board of Directors, which also increased 
the  quarterly  cash  dividend  by  10.9%,  from  $0.23  to  $0.255  per  common  share  in  November  2022.  Cash  dividends 
increased $22.8 million, or 10.4%, from $220.2 million in 2021 due to a 12.2% increase in the quarterly cash dividend 
declared by our Board of Directors in October 2021, followed by the additional increase in November 2022 and reflects 
the  reduced  share  count  resulting  from  repurchases.  In  2022,  we  also  repurchased  3.4  million  common  shares  at  an 
aggregate  cost  of  $425  million  pursuant  to  our  Normal  Course  Issuer  Bid,  which  was  renewed  in  August  and  which 
provides for repurchases of up to 12,859,066 shares, being 5% of the shares outstanding as of August 2, 2022.  Our Board 
of Directors intends to review the quarterly dividend during the fourth quarter of each year, with a long-term objective of 
increasing  the  amount  of  the  dividend.  We  expect  the  amount  of  capital  we  return  to  shareholders  through  share 
repurchases to vary depending on our financial condition and results of operations, capital structure, the amount of cash 
we deploy on acquisitions, expectations regarding the timing and size of acquisitions, the market price of our common 
shares,  and  overall  market  conditions.  We  cannot  assure  as  to  the  amounts  or  timing  of  future  share  repurchases  or 
dividends. We have the ability under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement to repurchase our common shares 
and pay dividends provided that we maintain specified financial ratios. 

Capital Position 

We  target  a  Leverage  Ratio,  as  defined  substantially  identically  in  both  our  Credit  Agreement  and  Term  Loan 
Agreement, of approximately 2.5x – 3.0x total debt to EBITDA. The Leverage Ratio is a non-GAAP ratio (refer to page 
74  of  this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  for  more  information  on  this  ratio).  Higher  debt  resulting  primarily  from 
acquisition outlays in 2022 was partially offset by higher EBITDA in 2022, resulting in an increase in our Leverage Ratio 
from  2.50x  at  December  31,  2021  to  2.93x  at  December 31,  2022.    Cash  balances  decreased  from  $147.4  million  at 
December 31, 2021 to $78.6 million at December 31, 2022, and we had $1.194 billion of remaining borrowing capacity 
under our Credit Agreement, which matures in July 2026.  In total, we had $1.163 billion in prepayable debt outstanding 
at December 31, 2022. 

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities 
in the consolidated financial statements. As described by the SEC, critical accounting estimates and assumptions are those 
that may be material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or 
the  susceptibility  of  such  matters  to  change,  and  that  have  a  material  impact  on  the  financial  condition  or  operating 
performance of a company. Such critical accounting estimates and assumptions are applicable to our reportable segments. 

We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in  Note 3 of our consolidated financial 
statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following accounting policies involve a greater 
degree of judgment and complexity.  Accordingly, we believe these are the most critical to fully understand and evaluate 
our financial condition and results of operations.  

4

Insurance  liabilities.  We  maintain  insurance  policies  for  automobile,  general,  employer’s,  environmental,  cyber, 
employment  practices  and  directors’  and  officers’  liability  as  well  as  for  employee  group  health  insurance,  property 
insurance and workers’ compensation. We carry umbrella policies for certain types of claims to provide excess coverage 
over the underlying policies and per incident deductibles or self-insured retentions. Our insurance accruals are based on 
claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported and are developed by our management with assistance from 
our  third-party  actuary  and  third-party  claims  administrator.  The  insurance  accruals  are  influenced  by  our  past  claims 
experience factors and by published industry development factors. If we experience insurance claims or costs above or 
below our historically evaluated levels, our estimates could be materially affected. The frequency and amount of claims 
or incidents could vary significantly over time, which could materially affect our self-insurance liabilities. Additionally, 
the actual costs to settle the self-insurance liabilities could materially differ from the original estimates and cause us to 
incur additional costs in future periods associated with prior year claims. 

Income taxes. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial 
reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are 
expected  to  be  in  effect  when  the  differences  are  expected  to  reverse.  If  our  judgment  and  estimates  concerning 
assumptions made in calculating our expected future income tax rates are incorrect, our deferred income tax assets and 
liabilities would change. Based on our deferred income tax liability balance at December 31, 2022, each 0.1 percentage 
point change to our expected future income tax rates would change our deferred income tax liability balance and income 
tax expense by approximately $3.9 million. 

Accounting for landfills. We recognize landfill depletion expense as airspace of a landfill is consumed. Our landfill 
depletion  rates  are  based  on  the  remaining  disposal  capacity  at  our  landfills,  considering  both  permitted  and  probable 
expansion airspace. We calculate the net present value of our final capping, closure and post-closure commitments by 
estimating the total obligation in current dollars, inflating the obligation based upon the expected date of the expenditure 
and discounting the inflated total to its present value using a credit-adjusted risk-free rate. Any changes in expectations 
that result in an upward revision to the estimated undiscounted cash flows are treated as a new liability and are inflated 
and discounted at rates reflecting market conditions. Any changes in expectations that result in a downward revision (or 
no revision) to the estimated undiscounted cash flows result in a liability that is inflated and discounted at rates reflecting 
the market conditions at the time the cash flows were originally estimated. This policy results in our final capping, closure 
and post-closure liabilities being recorded in “layers.”  The resulting final capping, closure and post-closure obligations 
are  recorded  on  the  consolidated  balance  sheet  along  with  an  offsetting  addition  to  site  costs,  which  is  amortized  to 
depletion expense as the remaining landfill airspace is consumed. Interest is accreted on the recorded liability using the 
corresponding  discount  rate.  The  accounting  methods  discussed  below  require  us  to  make  certain  estimates  and 
assumptions. Changes to these estimates and assumptions, including as a result of inflation, could have a material effect 
on our financial condition and results of operations. Any changes to our estimates are applied prospectively. 

Landfill development costs. Landfill development costs include the costs of acquisition, construction associated with 
excavation, liners, site berms, groundwater monitoring wells, gas recovery systems and leachate collection systems. We 
estimate the total costs associated with developing each landfill site to its final capacity. Total landfill costs include the 
development costs associated with expansion airspace. Expansion airspace is described below. Landfill development costs 
depend on future events and thus actual costs could vary significantly from our estimates. Material differences between 
estimated and actual development costs may affect our cash flows by increasing our capital expenditures and thus affect 
our results of operations by increasing our landfill depletion expense. 

Final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. We accrue for estimated final capping, closure and post-closure 
maintenance  obligations  at  the  landfills  we  own,  and  the  landfills  that  we  operate,  but  do  not  own,  under  life-of-site 
agreements. We could have additional material financial obligations relating to final capping, closure and post-closure 
costs at other disposal facilities that we currently own or operate or that we may own or operate in the future. Our discount 
rate assumption for purposes of computing 2022 and 2021 “layers” for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations 
is based on our long-term credit adjusted risk free rate.  Our discount rate ranged from 3.25% to 5.50% for 2022 and was 
3.25% for 2021.  Our long-term inflation rate assumption ranged from 2.25% to 2.75% for 2022 and was 2.25% for 2021. 
Significant reductions in our estimates of the remaining lives of our landfills or significant increases in our estimates of 
the  landfill  final  capping,  closure  and  post-closure  maintenance  costs  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  our 
financial 

5 

condition and results of operations. Additionally, changes in regulatory or legislative requirements could increase our costs 
related to our landfills, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Disposal capacity. Our internal and third-party engineers perform surveys at least annually to estimate the remaining 
disposal capacity at our landfills. Our landfill depletion rates are based on the remaining disposal capacity, considering 
both permitted and probable expansion airspace, at the landfills that we own and at landfills that we operate, but do not 
own,  under  life-of-site  agreements.  Our  landfill  depletion  rate  is  based  on  the  term  of  the  operating  agreement  at  our 
operated  landfill  that  has  capitalized  expenditures.  Expansion  airspace  consists  of  additional  disposal  capacity  being 
pursued  through  means  of  an  expansion  that  has  not  yet  been  permitted.  Expansion  airspace  that  meets  the  following 
criteria is included in our estimate of total landfill airspace: 

1) whether the land where the expansion is being sought is contiguous to the current disposal site, and we either own
the expansion property or have rights to it under an option, purchase, operating or other similar agreement;
2) whether total development costs, final capping costs, and closure/post-closure costs have been determined;
3) whether  internal  personnel  have  performed  a  financial  analysis  of  the  proposed  expansion  site  and  have

determined that it has a positive financial and operational impact;

4) whether internal personnel or external consultants are actively working to obtain the necessary approvals to obtain

the landfill expansion permit; and

5) whether we consider it probable that we will achieve the expansion (for a pursued expansion to be considered
probable, there must be no significant known technical, legal, community, business or political restrictions or
similar issues existing that we believe are more likely than not to impair the success of the expansion).

We may be unsuccessful in obtaining permits for expansion disposal capacity at our landfills. In such cases, we will 
charge the previously capitalized development costs to expense. This will adversely affect our operating results and cash 
flows and could result in greater landfill depletion expense being recognized on a prospective basis. 

We periodically evaluate our landfill sites for potential impairment indicators. Our judgments regarding the existence 
of impairment indicators are based on regulatory factors, market conditions and operational performance of our landfills. 
Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that our landfill carrying costs are impaired. 
Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets testing. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for 
impairment on at least an annual basis in the fourth quarter of the year. In addition, we evaluate our reporting units for 
impairment if events or circumstances change between annual tests indicating a possible impairment. Examples of such 
events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, the following: 







a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate;
an adverse action or assessment by a regulator;
a more likely than not expectation that a segment or a significant portion thereof will be sold;
the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a segment; or
current period or expected future operating cash flow losses.

As part of our goodwill impairment test, we estimate the fair value of each of our reporting units using discounted 
cash flow analyses.  Our reporting units consisted of our five geographic solid waste operating segments at December 31, 
2022, 2021 and 2020.  We compare the fair value of each reporting unit with the carrying value of the net assets assigned 
to the  reporting unit. If the fair value  of a  reporting  unit is greater than the carrying  value  of the  net assets, including 
goodwill, assigned to the reporting unit, then no impairment results. If the fair value is less than its carrying value, an 
impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying 
amount of goodwill. In testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we compare the estimated fair value of 
each indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying value. If the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less 
than its carrying value, an impairment charge would be recorded to earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income. 

Discounted  cash  flow  analyses  require  significant  assumptions  and  estimates  about  the  future  operations  of  each 
reporting unit and the future discrete cash flows related to each indefinite-lived intangible asset. Significant judgments 

6 

inherent in these analyses include the determination of appropriate discount rates, the amount and timing of expected future 
cash flows, growth rates and income tax rates. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values of our reporting 
units,  we  evaluate  our  results  against  our  current  market  capitalization.  For  our  impairment  testing  of  our  operating 
segments for the year ended December 31, 2022, we determined that the indicated fair value of each of our reporting units 
exceeded their carrying value  in excess of 200% and, therefore, we did not record an impairment charge. The detailed 
results  of  our  2022,  2021  and  2020  impairment  tests  are  described  in  Note 3  of  our  consolidated  financial  statements 
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Business  Combination  Accounting.  We  recognize,  separately  from  goodwill,  the  identifiable  assets  acquired  and 
liabilities assumed at their estimated acquisition date fair values. We measure and recognize goodwill as of the acquisition 
date as the excess of: (a) the aggregate of the fair value of consideration transferred, the fair value of the noncontrolling 
interest in the acquiree (if any) and the acquisition date fair value of our previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if 
any), over (b) the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. At the acquisition date, we measure the fair values 
of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed that arise from contractual contingencies. We measure the fair values of all 
noncontractual contingencies if, as of the acquisition date, it is more likely than not that the contingency will give rise to 
an asset or liability. 

General 

Our  revenues  consist  mainly  of  fees  we  charge  customers  for  collection,  transfer,  recycling  and  disposal  of  non-

hazardous solid waste and treatment, recovery and disposal of non-hazardous E&P waste. 

Our  solid  waste  collection  business  involves  the  collection  of  waste  from  residential,  commercial  and  industrial 
customers for transport to transfer stations, or directly to landfills or recycling centers.  Solid  waste collection services 
include  both  recurring  and  temporary  customer  relationships.  The  services  are  performed  under  service  agreements, 
municipal contracts or franchise agreements with governmental entities. Our existing franchise agreements and most of 
our existing municipal contracts give us the exclusive right to provide specified waste services in the specified territory 
during  the  contract  term.  These  exclusive  arrangements  are  awarded,  at  least  initially,  on  a  competitive  bid  basis  and 
subsequently  on  a  bid  or  negotiated  basis.  The  standard  customer  service  agreements  generally  range  from  one  to 
three years  in  duration,  although  some  exclusive  franchises  are  for  significantly  longer  periods.  Residential  collection 
services are also provided on a subscription basis with individual households. 

The fees received for collection services are based primarily on the market, collection frequency and level of service, 
route density, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, type of equipment and containers furnished, the distance 
to the disposal or processing facility, the cost of disposal or processing, and prices charged by competitors for similar 
services. 

The terms of our contracts sometimes limit our ability to pass on price increases. Long-term solid waste collection 
contracts often contain a  formula, generally based on a  published price  index, that automatically adjusts  fees to cover 
increases in some, but not all, operating costs, or that limit increases to less than 100% of the increase in the applicable 
price index. 

Revenue at landfills is primarily generated by charging tipping fees on a per ton and/or per yard basis to third parties 

based on the volume disposed and the nature of the waste. 

Revenue at transfer stations is primarily generated by charging tipping or disposal fees on a per ton and/or per yard 
basis. The fees charged to third parties are based primarily on the market, type and volume or weight of the waste accepted, 
the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. 

Many of our landfill and transfer station customers have entered into one to ten year disposal contracts with us, most 

of which provide for annual indexed price increases. 

7 

Our revenues from E&P waste services are primarily generated through the treatment, recovery and disposal of non-
hazardous exploration and production  waste  from vertical and horizontal drilling, hydraulic  fracturing, production and 
clean-up activity, as well as other services.  

Our revenues from recycling services result from the sale of recycled commodities, which are generated by offering 
residential,  commercial,  industrial  and  municipal  customers  recycling  services  for  a  variety  of  recyclable  materials, 
including compost, cardboard, mixed paper, plastic containers, glass bottles and ferrous and aluminum metals. We own 
and operate recycling operations and market collected recyclable materials to third parties for processing before resale. In 
some instances, we utilize a third party to market recycled materials.  In certain instances, we issue recycling rebates to 
municipal or commercial customers, which can be based on the price we receive upon the sale of recycled commodities, 
a fixed contractual rate or other measures. We also receive rebates when we dispose of recycled commodities at third-
party facilities. 

Other revenues consist primarily of the sale of methane gas and renewable energy credits generated from our MSW 
landfills and revenues from intermodal services. Intermodal revenue is primarily generated through providing intermodal 
services for the rail haul movement of cargo and solid waste containers in the Pacific Northwest through a network of 
intermodal facilities. The fees received for intermodal services are based on negotiated rates and vary depending on volume 
commitments by the shipper and destination. 

No single contract or customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues at the consolidated or reportable 
segment level during the periods presented. The following table disaggregates our revenue by service line for the periods 
indicated (in thousands of U.S. dollars). 

Years Ended December 31,  
2021 

2022 

2020 

Commercial 
Residential 
Industrial and construction roll off 

Total collection 

Landfill 
Transfer 
Recycling 
E&P 
Intermodal and other 
Intercompany 

Total 

     $  2,176,295      $  1,813,426      $  1,610,313 
 1,528,217 
 833,148 
 3,971,678 
 1,146,732 
 777,754 
 86,389 
 159,438 
 118,396 
 (814,397) 
$  5,445,990 

 1,673,819 
 954,181 
 4,441,426 
 1,233,499 
 859,113 
 205,076 
 138,707 
 152,194 
 (878,654)  
$  6,151,361 

 1,891,108 
 1,183,624 
 5,251,027 
 1,328,942 
 1,026,050 
 204,876 
 210,562 
 188,471 
 (998,069)  
$  7,211,859 

Cost  of  operations  includes  labor  and  benefits,  tipping  fees  paid  to  third-party  disposal  facilities,  vehicle  and 
equipment maintenance, workers’ compensation, vehicle and equipment insurance, insurance and employee group health 
claims expense, third-party transportation expense, fuel, the cost of materials we purchase for recycling, district and state 
taxes and host community fees and royalties. Our significant costs of operations in 2022 were labor, employee  benefits, 
third-party disposal and transportation, vehicle, equipment and property maintenance, taxes and fees, insurance and fuel. 
We use a number of programs to reduce overall cost of operations, including increasing the use of automated routes to 
reduce labor and workers’ compensation exposure, utilizing comprehensive maintenance and health and safety programs, 
and  increasing  the  use  of  transfer  stations  to  further  enhance  internalization  rates.  We  carry  insurance  for  automobile 
liability, general liability, employer’s liability, environmental liability, cyber liability, employment practices liability and 
directors’ and officers’ liability as well as for employee group health claims, property and workers’ compensation. If we 
experience insurance claims or costs above or below our historically evaluated levels, our estimates could be materially 
affected. 

Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expense includes management, sales force, clerical and administrative 
employee compensation and benefits, legal, accounting and other professional services, acquisition expenses, bad debt 
expense and lease cost for our administrative offices. 

8 

Depreciation expense includes depreciation of equipment and fixed assets over their estimated useful lives using the 
straight-line  method.  Depletion  expense  includes  depletion  of  landfill  site  costs  and  total  future  development  costs  as 
remaining airspace of the landfill is consumed. Remaining airspace at our landfills includes both permitted and probable 
expansion airspace. Amortization expense includes the amortization of finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily 
of long-term franchise agreements and contracts, customer lists, permits and other agreements.  We use an accelerated or 
straight-line basis for amortization, depending on the attributes of the related intangibles.  Goodwill and indefinite-lived 
intangible  assets,  consisting  primarily  of  certain  perpetual  rights  to  provide  solid  waste  collection  and  transportation 
services in specified territories, are not amortized. 

We  capitalize  some  third-party  expenditures  related  to  development  projects,  such  as  legal  and  engineering.  We 
expense all third-party and indirect acquisition costs, including third-party legal and engineering expenses, executive and 
corporate overhead, public relations and other corporate services, as we incur them. We charge against net income any 
unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances (net of any portion that we believe we may recover, through sale or 
otherwise) that may become impaired, such as those that relate to any operation that is permanently shut down and any 
landfill development project that we believe will not be completed. We routinely evaluate all capitalized costs, and expense 
those related to projects that we believe are not likely to succeed. For example, if we are unsuccessful in our attempts to 
obtain or defend permits that  we  are  seeking or have been  awarded to operate or expand a landfill,  we  will  no longer 
generate anticipated income from the landfill and we will be required to expense in a future period up to the carrying value 
of the landfill or expansion project, less the recoverable value of the property and other amounts recovered. 

Presentation of Results of Operations, Segment Reporting, and Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations, Segment Reporting, and Liquidity and Capital 
Resources includes a comparison for the year ended December 31, 2022 to the year ended December 31, 2021. A similar 
discussion and analysis that compares the year ended December 31, 2021 to the year ended December 31, 2020 can be 
found in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021.  

Results of Operations 

The following table sets forth items in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income in thousands of U.S. dollars and 

as a percentage of revenues for the periods indicated: 

Revenues 
Cost of operations 
Selling, general and administrative 
Depreciation 
Amortization of intangibles 
Impairments and other operating items 
Operating income 

Interest expense 
Interest income 
Other income, net 
Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
Income tax provision 
Net income 
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
Net income attributable to Waste Connections 

Years Ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 

Years Ended December 31,  

2022 
  $  7,211,859 
 4,336,012 
 696,467 
 763,285 
 155,675 
 18,230 
 1,242,190 

     % of Revenues     

2021 

 100.0 %   $  6,151,361 
 3,654,074 
 612,337 
 673,730 
 139,279 
 32,316 
 1,039,625 

 60.1 
 9.7 
 10.6 
 2.2 
 0.2 
 17.2 

     % of Revenues     
 100.0 %  
 59.4 
 10.0 
 10.9 
 2.3 
 0.5 
 16.9 

 (202,331)  
 5,950 
 3,154 
 — 
 (212,962)  
 836,001 
(339) 
  $   835,662 

 (162,796)  
 (2.8)  
 2,916 
0.1 
 6,285 
0.0 
 (115,288)  
 — 
 (152,253)  
 (2.9)  
 618,489 
 11.6 
(442) 
(0.0) 
 11.6 %   $   618,047 

 (2.6)  
0.0 
0.1 
(1.9)  
 (2.5)  
 10.0 
(0.0) 
 10.0 %  

Revenues.  Total  revenues increased  $1.060 billion,  or  17.2%,  to  $7.212 billion  for the  year ended  December  31, 

2022, from $6.151 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.  

9 

During the year ended December 31, 2022, incremental revenue from acquisitions closed during, or subsequent to, 

the year ended December 31, 2021, increased revenues by approximately $563.1 million. 

Operations that were divested in 2022 and the full year impact of operations that were divested in  2021, decreased 

revenues by $11.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. 

During  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  the  net  increase  in  prices  charged  to  our  customers  at  our  existing 

operations was $541.7 million, consisting of $455.8 million of core price increases and surcharges of $85.9 million. 

During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized volume losses totaling $63.2 million, which was comprised 
of  $51.8  million  of  declines  associated  with  the  aforementioned  residential  collection  contracts,  lower  post-collection 
volumes related to transportation shortages, partially offset by increases primarily attributable to commercial and roll off 
collection.  

E&P waste revenues at facilities owned during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 increased $75.8 million 
due to increases in overall demand for our E&P waste services resulting from higher demand for crude oil contributing to 
increases in drilling and production activity levels. 

Revenues from sales of recyclable commodities at facilities owned during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 
2021 decreased $45.0 million.  Prices for old corrugated cardboard, aluminum, plastics and other paper products increased 
from the prior period during the six months ended June 30, 2022 before declining during the six months ended December 
31, 2022.  

A decrease in the average Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar currency exchange rate resulted in a decrease in revenues of 
$32.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The average Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange  rates on our 
Canadian revenues were 0.7682 and 0.7982 for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  

Other revenues increased $31.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2022, due primarily to a $14.1 million 
increase in landfill gas revenues and renewable energy credits, a $12.1 million increase in intermodal revenues and a $5.4 
million increase in other non-core revenue sources. 

Cost of Operations.  Total cost of operations increased $681.9 million, or 18.7%, to $4.336 billion for the year ended 
December 31, 2022, from $3.654 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily the result of 
$369.4 million of additional operating costs from acquisitions closed during, or subsequent to, the year ended December 
31, 2021 and an increase in operating costs at our existing operations of $337.8 million, assuming foreign currency parity, 
partially offset by a decrease in operating costs of $16.9 million resulting from a lower average foreign currency exchange 
rate in effect during the current period and a decrease of $8.4 million from operations divested subsequent to the  year 
ended December 31, 2021. 

The increase in operating costs of $337.8 million, assuming foreign currency parity, at our existing operations for the 
year ended December 31, 2022 consisted of an increase in labor and recurring incentive compensation expenses of $92.2 
million due primarily to employee pay increases, an increase in fuel expense of $73.1 million due to higher diesel and 
natural  gas  prices,  an  increase  in  third-party  trucking  and  transportation  expenses  of  $52.9  million  due  primarily  to 
increased landfill special waste volumes requiring trucking and transportation services to our landfills and higher rates 
charged by third-party providers, an increase in truck, container, equipment and facility maintenance and repair expenses 
of $43.1 million due primarily to increased collection routes and equipment operating hours and parts and service rate 
increases, an increase in third-party disposal expenses of $17.7 million due primarily to rate increases at third-party post-
collection  sites,  an  increase  in  expenses  for  auto  and  workers’  compensation  claims  of  $9.1  million  due  primarily  to 
increased claim severity and inflation-led cost increases, an increase in supplemental compensation to non-management 
personnel  of  $9.0  million  to  provide  financial  assistance  associated  with  the  impact  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  an 
increase in taxes on revenues of $8.9 million due primarily to increased revenues, an increase in intermodal rail expenses 
of $6.1 million due to higher cargo volumes, an increase in expenses for purchasing and processing recyclable commodities 
of $4.9 million due to processing expenses charged by third parties increasing as recyclable commodity values decline in 
certain regulated operating markets, an increase in subcontracted hauling services at our solid waste operations of $3.8 

10 

million due to higher costs charged by third-party providers, an increase in landfill maintenance, environmental compliance 
and daily cover expenses of $3.2 million due to increased compliance requirements under our landfill operating permits, 
an increase  in 401(k) matching expenses of $2.0 million due to higher employee earnings, an increase in property tax 
expense of $1.9 million due to higher property value assessments and $9.9 million of other net expense increases. 

Cost of operations as a percentage of revenues increased 0.7 percentage points to 60.1% for the year ended December 
31, 2022, from 59.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase as a percentage of revenues consisted of a 0.7 
percentage point increase from higher fuel expense, a 0.6 percentage point increase from higher third-party trucking and 
transportation expenses, a 0.5 percentage point increase from acquisitions closed during, or subsequent to, the year ended 
December 31, 2021 having operating margins lower than our company average, and a 0.1 percentage point increase in 
compensation  to  non-management  personnel  for  financial  assistance  associated  with  the  impact  of  the  COVID-19 
pandemic,  partially  offset  by  a  combined  1.2  percentage  point  decrease  from  disposal,  taxes  on  revenues,  labor  and 
employee benefits due to price-driven revenue increases.  

SG&A.  SG&A expenses increased $84.2 million, or 13.7%, to $696.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, 
from $612.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was comprised of an increase of $45.8 million, 
assuming  foreign  currency  parity,  at  our  existing  operations  and  $42.3  million  from  acquisitions  closed  during,  or 
subsequent to, the year ended December 31, 2021, partially offset by a decrease of $2.8 million resulting from a lower 
average foreign currency exchange rate in effect during the current period and a decrease of $1.1 million from operations 
divested subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2021. 

The increase in SG&A expenses at our existing operations of $45.8 million, assuming foreign currency parity, for the 
year ended December 31, 2022 was comprised of a collective increase in travel, meetings, training and community activity 
expenses of $22.6 million due to increased travel and social gatherings in the current year period due to a reduction in 
restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, an increase in administrative payroll expenses of $16.4 million due 
primarily  to  annual  pay  increases,  an  increase  in  direct  acquisition  expenses  of  $13.6  million  due  to  an  increase  in 
acquisition activity in the current period, an increase in equity-based compensation expenses of $6.2 million associated 
with  our  annual  recurring  grant  of  restricted  share  units  to  our  personnel,  an  increase  in  software  license  fees  of  $3.7 
million associated with new information technology applications, an increase in bad debt costs of $2.8 million associated 
with  increased  revenue,  an  increase  in  professional  fees  of  $1.6  million  due  primarily  to  increased  legal  services,  an 
increase of $0.8 million resulting from the payment of supplemental bonuses to non-management employees to provide 
financial assistance associated with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and $4.1 million of other net expense increases, 
partially offset by a decrease in deferred compensation expenses of $9.1 million as a result of decreases in the market value 
of investments to which employee deferred compensation liability balances are tracked, a decrease in accrued recurring 
cash  incentive  compensation  expense  to  our  management  of  $8.6  million,  a  decrease  of  $5.2  million  in  equity-based 
compensation  expenses  associated  with  the  prior  year  period  including  adjustments  to  increase  the  fair  value  of  our 
common shares held in our deferred compensation plan by certain key executives as a result of the shares being exchanged 
for  other  investment  options,  and  a  decrease  in  equity-based  compensation  expenses  of  $3.1  million  associated  with 
changes in our share price resulting in fair value measurement decreases to equity awards accounted for as liabilities that 
were granted to employees of Progressive Waste prior to June 1, 2016, which are subject to valuation adjustments each 
period. 

SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased 0.3 percentage points to 9.7% for the year ended December 
31, 2022, from 10.0% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease as a percentage of revenues was primarily 
attributable  to  lower  cash  incentive  compensation  expense,  lower  deferred  compensation  expense,  acquisitions  closed 
during, or subsequent to, the year ended December 31, 2021 having lower SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenues 
than our company average and the impact of price-driven revenue increases in our solid waste services, partially offset by 
increased travel, meetings, training and community activity expenses and higher direct acquisition expenses. 

Depreciation.  Depreciation expense increased $89.6 million, or 13.3%, to $763.3 million for the year ended December 
31,  2022,  from  $673.7 million  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021.  The  increase  was  comprised  of  an  increase  in 
depreciation and depletion expense of $62.4 million from  acquisitions closed during, or subsequent to, the year ended 
December 31, 2021, an increase in depreciation expense of $24.5 million from the impact of additions to our fleet and 
equipment  purchased  to  support  our  existing  operations  and  an  increase  in  depletion  expense  of  $9.2  million  resulting 
from 

11

increased landfill special waste and E&P volumes and higher landfill development costs increasing our per ton landfill 
depletion rates, partially offset by a decrease of $3.4 million resulting from a lower average foreign currency exchange 
rate  in  effect  during  the  current  period,  and  a  decrease  in  depreciation  and  depletion  expense  of  $3.1  million  from 
operations divested subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2021. 

Depreciation  expense  as  a  percentage  of  revenues  decreased  0.3  percentage  points  to  10.6%  for  the  year  ended 
December 31, 2022, from 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease as a percentage of revenues was 
primarily attributable to the impact of price-driven revenue increases in our solid waste services. 

Amortization  of  Intangibles.   Amortization  of  intangibles  expense  increased  $16.4  million,  or  11.8%,  to  $155.7 
million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from $139.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase 
was the result of $37.7 million from intangible assets acquired in acquisitions closed during, or subsequent to, the year 
ended December 31, 2021, partially offset by a decrease of $20.5 million from certain intangible assets becoming fully 
amortized subsequent to December 31, 2021 and a decrease of $0.8 million resulting from a lower average foreign currency 
exchange rate in effect during the current period. 

Amortization of intangibles expense as a percentage of revenues decreased 0.1 percentage points to 2.2% for the year 
ended December 31, 2022, from 2.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease as a percentage of revenues 
was attributable to the impact of price-driven revenue increases in our solid waste services. 

Impairments and Other Operating Items.  Impairments and other operating items decreased $14.1 million, to net losses 
totaling $18.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from net losses totaling $32.3 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2021.  

The net losses of $18.2 million recorded during the  year ended December 31, 2022 consisted of $10.8  million of 
charges to write off the carrying cost of certain contracts that were not, or are not expected to be, renewed prior to the 
original estimated termination date and an $8.4 million lawsuit judgment accrual, partially offset by $1.0 million of other 
net gains. 

The  net losses of $32.3 million recorded during the  year ended December 31, 2021 consisted of  $18.7  million of 
impairment charges to property and equipment and intangible assets at three of our E&P waste operations, $4.9 million of 
charges to terminate or write off the carrying cost of certain contracts that were not, or are not expected to be, renewed 
prior to the original estimated termination date, a $4.6 million loss resulting from property and equipment damaged in a 
facility fire, $2.8 million of adjustments to increase the carrying value of certain contingent consideration liabilities, $1.5 
million of losses on property and equipment disposals and $1.8 million of other net charges, partially offset by $2.0 million 
of gains from the disposal of assets at two non-strategic operating locations. 

Operating  Income.   Operating  income  increased  $202.6  million,  or  19.5%,  to  $1.242  billion  for  the  year  ended 

December 31, 2022, from $1.040 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.  

The increase in our operating income for the year ended December 31, 2022 was due primarily to price increases for 
our solid waste services, operating income contributions from increased sales of renewable energy credits associated with 
the generation of landfill gas, operating income generated from acquisitions closed during, or subsequent to, the year ended 
December 31, 2021 and an increase in earnings at our E&P waste operations.  

Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased 0.3 percentage points to 17.2% for the year ended December 
31, 2022, from 16.9% for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase in operating income as a percentage of revenues 
was comprised of a 0.3 percentage point decrease in impairments and other operating items, a 0.3 percentage point decrease 
in  depreciation  expense,  a  0.3  percentage  point  decrease  in  SG&A  expense  and  a  0.1  percentage  point  decrease  in 
amortization expense, partially offset by a 0.7 percentage point increase in cost of operations. 

Interest Expense.  Interest expense increased $39.5 million, or 24.3%, to $202.3 million for the year ended December 
31, 2022, from $162.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase 
of $53.3 million from the issuance of $2.75 billion of senior unsecured notes during, or subsequent to, the year ended 

12 

December 31, 2021, an increase of $13.9 million due to an increase in the average borrowings outstanding under our Credit 
Agreement and Term Loan Agreement and an increase of $9.8 million from higher interest rates on borrowings outstanding 
under our Credit Agreement, partially offset by a decrease of $37.1 million from the repayment of $1.75 billion of senior 
unsecured notes during the year ended December 31, 2021 and $0.4 million of other net decreases. 

Interest Income.  Interest income increased $3.1 million to $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, from 
$2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily attributable to higher reinvestment rates, 
partially offset by lower average cash balances in the current period.  

Other Income, Net.  Other income, net decreased $3.1 million, to $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, 

from $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021.  

Other  income  of  $3.2  million  recorded  during  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022  consisted  of  income  from 
transactions primarily as a result of the impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $7.0 million related to 
the decrease in the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar exchange rate in the period, and $1.4 million of other income, partially 
offset by $5.2 million from a decline in the value of investments purchased to fund our employee deferred compensation 
obligations. 

Other income of $6.3 million recorded during the year ended December 31, 2021 consisted of $3.8 million of income 
earned on investments purchased to fund our employee deferred compensation obligations, a $1.4 million adjustment to 
decrease certain non-acquisition accrued liabilities recorded in prior periods, an increase in foreign currency transaction 
gains of $0.7 million attributable to the impact of an increase in the Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rate during 
the period and a $0.4 million increase in other net income sources. 

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt.  Loss on early extinguishment of debt was $115.3 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2021 and consisted of the payment of a make-whole premium and the write-off of remaining unamortized 
loan fees associated with the early repayment of the outstanding senior notes under our master note purchase agreements. 

Income Tax Provision.  Income taxes increased $60.7 million, to $213.0 million for the year ended December 31, 
2022, from $152.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 
2022 was 20.3%. Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 19.8%.  

The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2022 included a benefit of $2.7 million from share-based 
payment awards being recognized in the income statement when settled, as well as a portion of our internal financing being 
taxed at effective rates substantially lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. 

The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2021 included a benefit of $2.1 million from share-based 
payment awards being recognized in the income statement when settled, as well as a portion of our internal financing being 
taxed at effective rates substantially lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. 

Our  effective  tax  rate  is  dependent  upon  the  proportion  of  pre-tax  income  among  the  jurisdictions  where  we  do 
business. As such, our effective tax rate will be subject to some variability depending upon the proportional contribution 
of pre-tax income across jurisdictions in any period. 

Segment Reporting 

We manage our operations through the following five geographic solid waste operating segments: Eastern, Southern, 
Western, Central and Canada. Our five geographic solid waste operating segments comprise our reportable segments.  Our 
Chief Operating Decision Maker evaluates operating segment profitability and determines resource allocations based on 
several factors, of which the primary financial measure is segment EBITDA. We define segment EBITDA as earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, impairments and other operating items, other income (expense) and loss 
on  early  extinguishment  of  debt.  Segment  EBITDA  is  not  a  measure  of  operating  income,  operating  performance  or 
liquidity  under  GAAP  and  may  not  be  comparable  to  similarly  titled  measures  reported  by  other  companies.  Our 
management uses segment EBITDA in the evaluation of segment operating performance as it is a profit measure that is 

13 

generally  within  the  control  of  the  operating  segments.    Each  operating  segment  is  responsible  for  managing  several 
vertically integrated operations, which are comprised of districts.  

Summarized financial information for our reportable segments are shown in the following tables in thousands of U.S. 

dollars and as a percentage of total segment revenue for the periods indicated: 

Depreciation and 
Amortization 

Years Ended  
December 31, 2022 

Years Ended  
December 31, 2021 

Eastern 
Southern 
Western 
Central 
Canada 
Corporate(a) 

Eastern 
Southern 
Western 
Central 
Canada 
Corporate(a) 

Revenue 

$   1,890,705  $ 
 1,667,778 
 1,484,632 
 1,228,120 
 940,624 
 — 

EBITDA 
 486,649 
 497,832 
 445,894 
 424,621 
 349,403 
 (25,019) 
$   7,211,859  $   2,179,380 

Revenue 

$   1,521,288  $ 
 1,446,746 
 1,280,188 
 1,046,416 
 856,723 
 — 

EBITDA 
 404,493 
 394,982 
 405,778 
 359,434 
 339,859 
 (19,596) 
$   6,151,361  $   1,884,950 

EBITDA 
Margin 
 25.7 %   $ 
 29.9 %  
 30.0 %  
 34.6 %  
 37.1 %  
 — 

 30.2 %   $ 

EBITDA 
Margin 
 26.6 %   $ 
 27.3 %  
 31.7 %  
 34.3 %  
 39.7 %  
 — 

 30.6 %   $ 

 281,178 
 198,506 
 159,899 
 152,154 
 118,388 
 8,835 
 918,960 

 239,130 
 188,977 
 129,988 
 134,078 
 111,458 
 9,378 
 813,009 

Depreciation and 
Amortization 

(a) The majority of Corporate expenses are allocated to the five operating segments. Direct acquisition expenses,
expenses associated with common shares held in the deferred compensation plan exchanged for other investment
options  and  share-based  compensation  expenses  associated  with  Progressive  Waste  share-based  grants
outstanding at June 1, 2016 that were continued by the Company are not allocated to the five operating segments
and comprise the net EBITDA for our Corporate segment for the periods presented.

A reconciliation of segment EBITDA to Income before income tax provision is included in Note 17 to the consolidated 

financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Significant changes in revenue, EBITDA and depreciation, depletion and amortization for our reportable segments 

for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, are discussed below.  

Eastern 

Revenue increased $369.4 million to $1.891 billion for 2022, from $1.521 billion for 2021, due to price increases, 
contributions from acquisitions and increased landfill gas sales attributable to higher volumes produced, partially offset 
by  decreased  post-collection  volumes,  decreased  residential  collection  volumes,  and  lower  prices  for  recyclable 
commodities. 

EBITDA increased $82.1 million to $486.6 million, or a 25.7% EBITDA margin for 2022, from $404.5 million, or a 
26.6% EBITDA margin for 2021. The decrease in our EBITDA margin was due primarily to increased diesel fuel expenses, 
increased third-party trucking and transportation expenses, increased corporate overhead allocations and increased travel, 
meetings, training and community activity expenses, partially offset by benefits from price-led revenue increases and the 
impact of acquisitions having higher EBITDA margins than our segment average. 

14 

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense increased $42.1 million, to $281.2 million for 2022, from $239.1 
million for 2021, due to assets acquired in acquisitions, additions to our fleet and equipment and higher depletion expense 
due to higher landfill development costs increasing our per ton landfill depletion rates.  

Southern 

Revenue increased $221.0 million to $1.668 billion for 2022, from $1.447 billion for 2021, due to solid waste price 
increases, increased E&P waste revenues attributable to increases in drilling and production activity levels resulting in 
increases  in  the  demand  for  our  E&P  waste  services  and  contributions  from  acquisitions,  partially  offset  by  lower 
residential  collection  volumes  due  to  the  purposeful  non-renewal  of  a  collection  contract  subsequent  to  December  31, 
2021,  a  decrease  resulting  from  the  divestiture  of  certain  non-strategic  operating  locations  and  lower  post-collection 
volumes.  

EBITDA increased $102.8 million to $497.8 million, or a 29.9% EBITDA margin for 2022, from $395.0 million, or 
a  27.3%  EBITDA  margin  for  2021.  The  increase  in  our  EBITDA  margin  was  due  to  increased  earnings  at  our  E&P 
operations, the purposeful non-renewal of a residential contract, and price-led increases in solid waste revenue, partially 
offset by increased diesel and natural gas fuel expenses, the impact of acquisitions having lower EBITDA margins than 
our segment average, increased travel, meetings, training and community activity expenses and increased legal expenses.  

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense increased $9.5 million, to $198.5 million for 2022, from $189.0 
million for 2021, due to assets acquired in acquisitions, additions to our fleet and equipment and higher depletion expense 
due to increased landfill volumes and higher landfill development costs increasing our per ton landfill depletion rates, 
partially offset by a decrease resulting from the divestiture of certain non-strategic operating locations and a reduction in 
amortization expense associated with the loss of a large residential collection contract. 

Western 

Revenue increased $204.4 million to $1.485 billion for 2022, from $1.280 billion for 2021, due to contributions from 
acquisitions, price increases, increased collection volumes, higher prices during the first six months in the comparable 
periods  for  recyclable  commodities  and  increased  intermodal  revenue,  partially  offset  by  lower  prices  for  recyclable 
commodities during the last six months in the comparable period.  

EBITDA increased $40.1 million to $445.9 million, or a 30.0% EBITDA margin for 2022, from $405.8 million, or a 
31.7% EBITDA margin for 2021. The decrease in our EBITDA margin was due to increased diesel and natural gas fuel 
expenses, increased third-party trucking and transportation expenses, increased cost of recyclable commodities expenses, 
increased labor and recurring incentive compensation expenses and increased travel, meetings, training and community 
activity expenses, partially offset by benefits from price-led increases in revenue. 

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense increased $29.9 million, to $159.9 million for 2022, from $130.0 

million for 2021, due to assets acquired in acquisitions and additions to our fleet and equipment.  

Central 

Revenue increased $181.7 million to $1.228 billion for 2022, from $1.046 billion for 2021, due to price increases, 
contributions from acquisitions, higher landfill and residential collection volumes and higher prices during the first six 
months in the comparable periods for recyclable commodities, partially offset by lower prices for recyclable commodities 
during the last six months in the comparable period. 

EBITDA increased $65.2 million to $424.6 million, or a 34.6% EBITDA margin for 2022, from $359.4 million, or a 
34.3% EBITDA margin for 2021. The increase in our EBITDA margin was due to the benefits from price-led increases in 
revenue, partially offset by acquisitions having EBITDA margins lower than our segment average and increased diesel 
and natural gas fuel expenses. 

15 

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense increased $18.1 million, to $152.2 million for 2022, from $134.1 
million for 2021, due to assets acquired in acquisitions, additions to our fleet and equipment and higher depletion expense 
due to higher landfill development costs increasing our per ton landfill depletion rates. 

Canada 

Revenue increased $83.9 million to $940.6 million for 2022, from $856.7 million for 2021, due to price increases, 
contributions from acquisitions, higher commercial and roll off collection volumes, higher prices for renewable energy 
credits associated with the generation of landfill gas and higher prices during the first six months in the comparable periods 
for recyclable commodities, partially offset by a decrease in the average foreign currency exchange rate in effect during 
the comparable reporting periods, lower residential collection volumes due to the purposeful non-renewal of a collection 
contract subsequent to December 31, 2021, lower landfill volumes, lower prices for recyclable commodities during the 
last six months in the comparable period and the divestiture of a non-strategic operating location. 

EBITDA increased $9.5 million to $349.4 million, or a 37.1% EBITDA margin for 2022, from $339.9 million, or a 
39.7% EBITDA margin for 2021. The decrease in our EBITDA margin was due to acquisitions having EBITDA margins 
lower than our segment average, increased diesel fuel expenses, increased disposal expenses, increased employee benefits 
expenses, increased subcontracted hauling services, increased travel, meetings, training and community activity expenses, 
partially offset by benefits from price-led increases in revenue and the purposeful non-renewal of a collection contract. 

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense increased $6.9 million, to $118.4 million for 2022, from $111.5 
million  for  2021, due  to  assets  acquired  in  acquisitions  and  additions  to our  fleet  and  equipment,  partially  offset  by  a 
decrease in depletion expense due to lower landfill disposal volumes, a decrease resulting from the divestiture of a non-
strategic operating location and a decrease in the average foreign currency exchange rate in effect during the comparable 
reporting periods. 

Corporate 

EBITDA  decreased  $5.4  million,  to  a  loss  of  $25.0  million  for  2022,  from  a  loss  of  $19.6  million  for  2021. The 
decrease  was due to increased travel, meetings, training and community activity expenses, increased direct acquisition 
expenses, increased employee payroll expense, increased software license fees and the payment of supplemental bonuses 
to non-management employees to provide financial assistance associated with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, 
partially offset by decreased equity-based compensation expenses, decreased deferred compensation expenses, decreased 
cash incentive compensation expense to our management and decreased allocations of corporate overhead expenses to our 
segments. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The following table sets  forth certain cash flow information for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in 

thousands of U.S. dollars): 

Net cash provided by operating activities 
Net cash used in investing activities 
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 
Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of year 
Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of year 

2022 

2021 

$   2,022,492  $   1,698,229 
 (1,693,482) 
 (3,087,171)  
 (499,496) 
 1,028,463 
 (25) 
 (2,035)  
 (494,774) 
 (38,251)  
 714,389 
 219,615 
 219,615 
 181,364  $ 

$ 

16 

Operating Activities Cash Flows 

For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash provided  by operating activities was $2.022 billion. For the year 
ended December 31, 2021, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.698 billion. The $324.4 million increase was 
due primarily to the following: 

1)

Increase  in  earnings — Our  increase  in  net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was  favorably  impacted  by
$192.1 million from an increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization of intangibles, share-based
compensation, adjustments to and payments of contingent consideration recorded in earnings and loss on disposal
of  assets,  impairments  and  early  extinguishment  of  debt,  due  primarily  to  price  increases,  earnings  from
acquisitions, earnings generated from an increase in landfill gas revenues and renewable energy credits and an
increase in earnings at our E&P waste operations.

2) Accounts  payable  and  accrued  liabilities — Our  increase  in  net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities  was
favorably impacted by $94.2 million from accounts payable and accrued liabilities as changes in accounts payable
and  accrued  liabilities  resulted  in  an  increase  to  operating  cash  flows  of  $164.8  million  for  the  year  ended
December  31,  2022,  compared  to  an  increase  to  operating  cash  flows  of  $70.6  million  for  the  year  ended
December  31,  2021.  The  increase  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022  was  due  primarily  to  increases  in
operating expenses during the period which remained as outstanding obligations at December 31, 2022, the timing
of processing year-end payments to vendors for capital expenditures and  increased accrued interest due to the
timing of interest payments for our  senior unsecured notes issued subsequent to December 31, 2021,  partially
offset by the payment of deferred payroll taxes. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2021 was  due
primarily  to  increases  in  operating  expenses  during  the  period  which  remained  as  outstanding  obligations  at
December 31, 2021.

3) Deferred income taxes — Our increase in net cash provided by operating activities was favorably impacted by
$75.8 million from deferred income taxes as changes in deferred income taxes resulted in an increase to operating
cash flows of $93.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to an increase to operating cash
flows of $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase for the year ended December 31,
2022 was primarily attributable to tax benefits resulting from the divestiture of certain non-strategic E&P disposal
operating locations. The increase in deferred taxes for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to
accelerated tax depreciation from vehicles, equipment and containers.

4) Deferred revenue — Our increase in net cash provided by operating activities was favorably impacted by $10.5
million from deferred revenue as changes in deferred revenue resulted in an increase to operating cash flows of
$42.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to an increase to operating cash flows of $31.7
million for the year ended December 31, 2021. For both comparative periods, deferred revenue increased due to
price increases on our advanced billed residential and commercial collection services.

5) Prepaid expenses – Our increase in net cash provided by operating activities was  favorably impacted by $7.5
million from prepaid expenses as changes in prepaid expenses resulted in a decrease to operating cash flows of
$0.7  million  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2022,  compared  to  a decrease  to  operating  cash  flows  of  $8.2
million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease for the  year ended December 31, 2022 was  due
primarily  to  increases  from  payments  of  annual  insurance  premiums,  payments  of  annual  information  system
licenses and higher parts and fuel inventory, partially offset by a decrease in prepaid income tax payments. The
decrease for the year ended December 31, 2021 was due primarily to increases in prepaid income tax payments
and prepaid vendor payments.

6) Accounts receivable – Our increase in net cash provided by operating activities  was unfavorably impacted by
$45.9 million from accounts receivable as changes in accounts receivable resulted in a decrease to operating cash
flows of $100.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to a decrease to operating cash flows
of $54.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease for the years ended December 31, 2022 and
2021 was due to increases in revenues, which remained as outstanding receivables at year end.

7) Other long-term liabilities – Our increase in net cash provided by operating activities was unfavorably impacted
by $14.7 million from other long-term liabilities as changes in other long-term liabilities resulted in a decrease to
operating cash flows of $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to an increase to operating
cash flows of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease for the year ended December 31,
2022 was due primarily to decreased employee deferred compensation liabilities at year end.

17 

As of December 31, 2022, we had a working capital deficit of $395.0 million, including cash and equivalents of $78.6 
million.  Our working capital decreased $195.0 million from a working capital deficit of $200.0 million at December 31, 
2021  including  cash  and  equivalents  of  $147.4  million,  due  primarily  to  a  decrease  in  cash  balances  and  increases  in 
accounts payable and deferred revenue, partially offset by increased accounts receivable, increased inventory balances, 
and higher prepaid expenses. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash and equivalents; however, 
we can provide no assurances that access to our cash and equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the 
financial  markets.   Our  strategy  in  managing  our  working  capital  is  generally  to  apply  the  cash  generated  from  our 
operations  that  remains  after  satisfying  our  working  capital  and  capital  expenditure  requirements,  along  with  share 
repurchase and dividend programs, to reduce the unhedged portion of our indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and 
to minimize our cash balances. 

Investing Activities Cash Flows 

Net cash used in investing activities increased $1.394 billion to $3.087 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, 
from  $1.693  billion  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2021. The  significant  components  of  the  increase  included  the 
following: 

1) An increase in cash paid for acquisitions of $1.246 billion;
2) An  increase  in  capital  expenditures  at  operations  owned  in  the  comparable  periods  of  $103.5  million  due  to

increases in land and buildings and landfill site costs; and

3) An increase in capital expenditures at operations acquired during the comparative periods of $64.9  million due

to expenditures for landfill site costs, trucks, equipment and containers; less

4) A  decrease  in  cash  paid  for  investments  in  noncontrolling  interests  of  $25.0  million  resulting  from  a  2021

expenditure that did not reoccur in 2022; and

5) A decrease in proceeds from disposal of assets of $12.1 million due to lower disposal of non-strategic assets to

provide funding toward new capital expenditures.

Financing Activities Cash Flows 

Net cash provided by financing activities increased $1.528 billion to $1.028 billion for the year ended December 31, 
2022, from net cash used in financing activities of $499.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The significant 
components of the increase included the following: 

1) An  increase  from  the  net  change  in  long-term  borrowings  of  $1.522  billion  in  which  long-term  borrowings
increased $1.745 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022 and increased $222.2 million during the year
ended December 31, 2021; and

2) An increase from premiums paid on early extinguishment of debt of $110.6 million resulting from the repayment
in September 2021 of all of our outstanding senior notes under our master note purchase agreements; less

3) A decrease from higher payments to repurchase our common shares of $86.0 million due to an increased volume

of shares repurchased; and

4) A decrease from higher cash dividends paid of $22.8 million due primarily to an increase in our average quarterly
dividend rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 to $0.236 per share, from $0.211 per share for the year ended
December 31, 2021.

On July 26, 2022, our Board of Directors approved, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals, the annual renewal of 
our  normal  course  issuer  bid,  or  the  NCIB,  to  purchase  up  to  12,859,066  of  our  common  shares  during  the  period  of 
August 10,  2022  to  August 9,  2023  or  until  such  earlier  time  as  the  NCIB  is  completed  or  terminated  at  our  option. 
Shareholders may obtain a copy of our TSX Form 12 – Notice of Intention to Make a Normal Course Issuer Bid, without 
charge, by request directed to our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at (832) 442-2200.  The timing 
and amounts of any repurchases pursuant to the NCIB will depend on many factors, including our capital structure, the 
market price of our common shares and overall market conditions. All common shares purchased under the NCIB will be 
immediately cancelled following their repurchase. Information regarding our NCIB plan can be found under the section 
Normal Course Issuer Bid in Note 14, “Shareholders’ Equity,”  of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 

18 

The Board of Directors of the Company authorized the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend in October 2010 and has 
increased  it  on  an  annual  basis.  In  November  2022,  we  announced  that  our  Board  of  Directors  increased  our  regular 
quarterly cash dividend by $0.025, from $0.230 to $0.255 per share. Cash dividends of $243.0 million and $220.2 million 
were paid during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We cannot assure as to the amounts or timing 
of future dividends. 

We made $882.0 million in capital expenditures for property and equipment, net of proceeds from disposal of assets, 
during the year ended December 31, 2022, and we expect to make total capital expenditures for property and equipment 
of $895 million in 2023, net of proceeds from disposal of assets.  We intend to fund our planned 2023 capital expenditures 
principally through cash on hand, internally generated funds and borrowings under our Credit Agreement. In addition, we 
may make substantial additional capital expenditures in acquiring land and solid waste businesses. If we acquire additional 
landfill  disposal  facilities,  we  may  also  have  to  make  significant  expenditures  to  bring  them  into  compliance  with 
applicable  regulatory  requirements,  obtain  permits  or  expand  our  available  disposal  capacity.  We  cannot  currently 
determine the amount of these expenditures because they will depend on the number, nature, condition and permitted status 
of any acquired landfill disposal facilities. We believe that our cash and equivalents, Credit Agreement and the funds we 
expect to generate from operations will provide adequate cash to fund our working capital and other cash needs for the 
foreseeable future. However, disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our 
Credit Agreement or raise other capital. Our access to funds under the Credit Agreement is dependent on the ability of the 
banks that are parties to the agreement to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their 
funding  commitments  if  they  experience  shortages  of  capital  and  liquidity  or  if  they  experience  excessive  volumes  of 
borrowing requests within a short period of time. 

We have a revolving credit and term loan agreement (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or 
otherwise modified from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”)  with Bank of America, N.A., acting through its Canada 
Branch, as the global agent, the swing line lender and a letter of credit issuer, Bank of America, N.A., as the U.S. Agent 
and a letter of credit issuer, the other lenders named therein (the “Lenders”)  and any other financial institutions from time 
to  time  party  thereto.  There  are  no  subsidiary  guarantors  under  the  Credit  Agreement.  The  Credit  Agreement  has  a 
scheduled maturity date of July 30, 2026, which may be extended further upon agreement by Lenders holding at least 50% 
of the commitments and credit extensions outstanding, with respect to their respective commitments and credit extensions 
outstanding.  Any Lender that does not agree to an extension of the maturity date shall not be so extended with respect to 
their commitments and credit extensions.  

As of December 31, 2022, $650.0 million under the term loan and $614.7 million under the revolving credit facility 
were outstanding under the Credit Agreement, exclusive of outstanding standby letters of credit of $41.8 million. We also 
had $85.3 million of letters of credit issued and outstanding at December 31, 2022 under a facility other than the Credit 
Agreement.  We did not have any amounts outstanding under our master note purchase agreements. 

Pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Master Note Purchase Agreement dated as of June 1, 2016 (as amended, 
restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “2016 NPA”)  between us and 
certain accredited institutional investors, we issued senior unsecured notes (the “2016 Private Placement Notes”)  consisting 
of (i)  $150.0 million of senior notes due June 1, 2021 (the “June 2021 Private Placement Notes”) , (ii)  $200.0 million of 
senior notes due June 1, 2023, (iii) $150.0 million of senior notes due April 20, 2024, (iv) $400.0 million of senior notes 
due June 1, 2026 and (v) $250.0 million of senior notes due April 20, 2027.  

Pursuant to the terms and conditions of a Master Note Purchase Agreement dated as of July 15, 2008 (as amended, 
restated,  amended  and  restated,  assumed,  supplemented  or  otherwise  modified  from  time  to  time,  the  “2008  NPA”)  
between us and certain accredited institutional investors, we issued senior unsecured notes (the “2008 Private Placement 
Notes” and together with the 2016 Private Placement Notes, the “Private Placement Notes”)  consisting of (i)  $100.0 million 
of senior notes due  April 1, 2021 (the  “April 2021 Private Placement Notes” and together  with the  June  2021 Private 
Placement Notes, the “2021 Private Placement Notes”) , (ii)  $125.0 million of senior notes due August 20, 2022 and (iii)  
$375.0 million of senior notes due August 20, 2025.  

We repaid at maturity the 2021 Private Placement Notes and repaid the other Private Placement Notes in connection 

with the Offering (defined below) in September 2021.  

19 

On November 16, 2018, we completed an underwritten public offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount 
of our 4.25% Senior Notes due December 1, 2028 (the “2028 Senior Notes”) . The 2028 Senior Notes were issued under 
the Indenture, dated as of November 16, 2018 (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise 
modified from time to time, the “Indenture”) , by and between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee 
(the “Trustee”) , as supplemented through the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 16, 2018. 

On April 16, 2019, we completed an underwritten public offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 
3.50% Senior Notes due May 1, 2029 (the “2029 Senior Notes”) . The 2029 Senior Notes were issued under the Indenture, 
as supplemented through the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 16, 2019. 

On January 23, 2020, we completed an underwritten public offering of $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 
2.60%  Senior  Notes  due  February  1,  2030  (the  “2030  Senior  Notes”) .  The  2030  Senior  Notes  were  issued  under  the 
Indenture, as supplemented through the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 23, 2020. 

On March 13, 2020, we completed an underwritten public offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 
3.05% Senior Notes due April 1, 2050 (the “2050 Senior Notes”) . The 2050 Senior Notes were issued under the Indenture, 
as supplemented through the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 13, 2020. 

On September 20, 2021, we completed an underwritten public offering (the “Offering”)  of $650.0 million aggregate 
principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due January 15, 2032 (the “2032 Senior Notes”)  and $850.0 million aggregate 
principal amount of 2.95% Senior Notes due January 15, 2052 (the “2052 Senior Notes”) .  The 2032 Senior Notes and the 
2052 Senior Notes were issued under the Indenture, as supplemented through the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as 
of September 20, 2021. 

In connection with the Offering, we exercised our right to repay the $1.500 billion of Private Placement Notes then 
outstanding governed by the 2008 NPA and the 2016 NPA.  We repaid the Private Placement Notes then outstanding, 
including the $110.6 million make-whole premium, with the net proceeds from the Offering and borrowings under the 
revolving  credit  facility  provided  under  our  Credit  Agreement.    We  recorded  $115.3  million  to  Loss  on  early 
extinguishment of debt during the year ended December 31, 2021 due to the repayment of the Private Placement Notes 
and associated make-whole premium and related fees. 

On March 9, 2022, we completed an underwritten public offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 
3.20% Senior Notes due June 1, 2032 (the “New 2032 Senior Notes”) . The New 2032 Senior Notes were issued under the 
Indenture, as supplemented through the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2022. 

On August 18, 2022, we completed an underwritten public offering of $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 
4.20% Senior Notes due January 15, 2033 (the “2033 Senior Notes” and, together with the 2028 Senior Notes, the 2029 
Senior Notes, the 2030 Senior Notes, the 2032 Senior Notes, the New 2032 Senior Notes, the 2050 Senior Notes and the 
2052 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”). The 2033 Senior Notes were issued under the Indenture, as supplemented through 
the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 18, 2022. 

We pay interest on the Senior Notes semi-annually in arrears.  The Senior Notes are our senior unsecured obligations, 
ranking  equally  in  right  of  payment  with  our  existing  and  future  unsubordinated  debt  and  senior  to  any  of  our  future 
subordinated debt.  The Senior Notes are not guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. 

On October 31, 2022, we, as borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other lenders from 
time to time party thereto (the “New TL Lenders”)  entered into that certain Term Loan Agreement (as amended, restated, 
supplemented or otherwise  modified from time to time, the “Term Loan Agreement”) , pursuant to which the New TL 
Lenders  made  loans  to  us  in  an  aggregate  stated  principal  amount  of  $800.0  million.  We  used  substantially  all  of  the 
proceeds  of  borrowings  under  the  Term  Loan  Agreement  to  repay  revolving  borrowings  under  the  Credit  Agreement.  
Amounts  borrowed  under  the  Term  Loan  Agreement  and  repaid  or  prepaid  may  not  be  reborrowed.    The  Term  Loan 
Agreement has a scheduled maturity date of July 30, 2026. 

20

See  Note 11  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements  included  in  Item 8  of  this  Annual  Report  on  Form 10-K  for 

further details on the debt agreements. 

Contractual Obligations 

As of December 31, 2022, we had the following contractual obligations: 

Recorded Obligations 
Long-term debt 
Cash interest payments 
Contingent consideration 
Operating leases 
Final capping, closure and post-closure 

Long-term debt payments include: 

Payments Due by Period 
(amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) 
1 to 3 
Years 

Less Than 
1 Year 

3 to 5 Years 

Over 5 
Years 

Total 

$  6,963,401  $ 
 6,759  $   17,748  $  2,076,331  $  4,862,563 
$  2,516,432  $  256,586  $  523,604  $   379,935  $  1,356,307 
 32,241 
$ 
 3,224  $ 
 3,224  $ 
 41,845  $ 
$   230,784  $   40,499  $   59,390  $ 
 89,050 
 12,945  $  1,565,334 
$  1,627,130  $   11,926  $   36,925  $ 

 98,781  $   60,092  $ 

1) $614.7 million in principal payments due July 2026 related to our revolving credit facility under our Credit
Agreement. Advances are available under the Credit Agreement in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars and
bear interest at fluctuating rates (See Note 11). At December 31, 2022, $391.0 million of the outstanding
borrowings drawn under the revolving credit facility were in U.S. Term SOFR rate loans, bearing interest at
a total rate of 5.42% on such date.  At December 31, 2022, $223.7 million of the outstanding borrowings
drawn under the revolving credit facility were in Canadian-based bankers’ acceptances, bearing interest at a
total rate of 5.74% on such date.

2) $650.0 million in principal payments due July 2026 related to our term loan under our Credit Agreement.
Outstanding amounts on the term loan can be either base rate loans or Term SOFR loans. At December 31,
2022, all amounts outstanding under the term loan were in Term SOFR loans which bear interest at the Term
SOFR rate plus the applicable margin (for a total rate of 5.42% on such date).

3) $800.0 million in principal payments due July 2026 related to our term loan under our Term Loan Agreement.
Outstanding amounts on the term loan can be either base rate loans or Term SOFR loans. At December 31,
2022, all amounts outstanding under the term loan were in Term SOFR loans which bear interest at the Term
SOFR rate plus the applicable margin (for a total rate of 5.42% on such date).

4) $500.0 million in principal payments due 2028 related to our 2028 Senior Notes. The 2028 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 4.25%.

5) $500.0 million in principal payments due 2029 related to our 2029 Senior Notes. The 2029 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 3.50%.

6) $600.0 million in principal payments due 2030 related to our 2030 Senior Notes. The 2030 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 2.60%.

7) $650.0 million in principal payments due 2032 related to our 2032 Senior Notes. The 2032 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 2.20%.

8) $500.0 million in principal payments due 2032 related to our New 2032 Senior Notes. The New 2032 Senior

Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.20%.

9) $750.0 million in principal payments due 2033 related to our 2033 Senior Notes. The 2033 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 4.20%.

21 

10) $500.0 million in principal payments due 2050 related to our 2050 Senior Notes. The 2050 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 3.05%.

11) $850.0 million in principal payments due 2052 related to our 2052 Senior Notes. The 2052 Senior Notes bear

interest at a rate of 2.95%.

12) $37.2 million in principal payments related to our notes payable to sellers and other third parties. Our notes
payable to sellers and other third parties bear interest at rates between 2.42% and 10.35% at December 31,
2022, and have maturity dates ranging from 2024 to 2036.

13) $11.5 million in principal payments related to our financing leases.  Our financing leases bear interest at rates
between 1.89% and 2.16% at December 31, 2022, and have expiration dates ranging from 2026 to 2027.

The following assumptions were made in calculating cash interest payments: 

1) We calculated cash interest payments on the Credit Agreement using the Term SOFR rate plus the applicable
Term SOFR margin, the base rate plus the applicable base rate margin, the Canadian Dollar Offered Rate
plus  the  applicable  acceptance  fee  and  the  Canadian  prime  rate  plus  the  applicable  prime  rate  margin  at
December 31, 2022. We assumed the Credit Agreement is paid off when it matures in July 2026.

2) We  calculated  cash  interest  payments  on  the  Term  Loan  Agreement  using  the  Term  SOFR  rate  plus  the
applicable Term SOFR margin at December 31, 2022. We assumed the Term Loan Agreement is paid off
when it matures in July 2026.

3) We calculated cash interest payments  on our interest rate swaps using the stated interest rate in the swap
agreement less the Term SOFR rate through the earlier expiration of the term of the swaps or the term of the
credit facility.

Contingent  consideration  payments  include  $81.4  million  recorded  as  liabilities  in  our  consolidated  financial 
statements at December 31, 2022, and $17.4 million of future interest accretion on the recorded obligations. 

We are party to operating lease agreements and finance leases as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial 
statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These lease agreements are established in the 
ordinary  course  of  our  business  and  are  designed  to  provide  us  with  access  to  facilities  and  equipment  at 
competitive, market-driven prices.  

The estimated final capping, closure and post-closure expenditures presented above are in current dollars. 

Unrecorded Obligations(1) 
Unconditional purchase obligations 

Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period 
(amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars) 
3 to 5 
Years 

Less Than 
1 Year 
$  184,918   $  149,858   $  35,060   $ 

1 to 3 
Years 

 —   $ 

Total 

Over 5 
Years 
 — 

(1) We  are  party  to  unconditional  purchase  obligations  as  discussed  in  Note  13  to  the  consolidated  financial
statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These purchase obligations are established in
the ordinary course of our business and are designed to provide us with access to products at competitive, market-
driven prices. At December 31, 2022, our unconditional purchase obligations consisted of multiple fixed-price
fuel purchase contracts under which we have 57.9 million gallons remaining to be purchased for a total of $184.9
million. The current fuel purchase contracts expire on or before December 31, 2024. These arrangements have
not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December
31, 2022, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations
or liquidity.

22 

We have obtained standby letters of credit as discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included 
in Item 8 of this  Annual Report on Form 10-K and financial surety bonds as discussed  in  Note 13 to the consolidated 
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These standby letters of credit and financial 
surety bonds are generally obtained to support our financial assurance needs and landfill and E&P waste operations. These 
arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended 
December 31, 2022, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations 
or liquidity. 

From time to time, we evaluate our existing operations and their strategic importance to us. If we determine that a 
given  operating  unit  does  not  have  future  strategic  importance,  we  may  sell  or  otherwise  dispose  of  those  operations. 
Although we believe our reporting units would not be impaired by such dispositions, we could incur losses on them. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See  Note 2  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements  included  in  Item 8  of  this  Annual  Report on  Form 10-K  for  a 

description of the new accounting standards that are applicable to us. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

Adjusted Free Cash Flow 

We present adjusted free cash flow, a  non-GAAP  financial  measure, supplementally because it  is  widely  used by 
investors as a valuation and liquidity measure in the solid waste industry. Management uses adjusted free cash flow as one 
of the principal measures to evaluate and monitor the ongoing financial performance of our operations. We define adjusted 
free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, plus or minus change in book overdraft, plus proceeds from 
disposal of assets, less capital expenditures for property and equipment and distributions to noncontrolling interests. We 
further adjust this calculation to exclude the effects of items management believes impact the ability to assess the operating 
performance of our business. This measure is not a substitute for, and should be used in conjunction with, GAAP liquidity 
or financial measures. Other companies may calculate adjusted free cash flow differently. Our adjusted free cash flow for 
the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, are calculated as follows (amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars): 

Net cash provided by operating activities 
Plus (less): Change in book overdraft 
Plus: Proceeds from disposal of assets 
Less: Capital expenditures for property and equipment 
Adjustments: 

Payment of contingent consideration recorded in earnings (a) 
Cash received for divestitures (b) 
Transaction-related expenses (c) 
Pre-existing Progressive Waste share-based grants (d) 
Tax effect (e) 

Adjusted free cash flow 

2022 

Years Ended December 31,  
2021 
$  2,022,492  $  1,698,229  $  1,408,521 
1,096
19,084
 (597,053) 

(367) 
 42,768 
 (744,315)  

 (1,076)  
 30,676 
 (912,677)  

2020 

 2,982 
 (5,671)  
 30,825 
 286 
 (2,993)  

 10,371 
 (10,673) 
 9,803 
 5,770 
 (5,021) 
$  1,164,844  $  1,009,598  $   841,898 

 520 
 (17,118)  
 30,771 
 397 
 (1,287)  

(a) Reflects the addback of acquisition-related payments for contingent consideration that were recorded as expenses in earnings
and as a component of cash flows from operating activities as the amounts paid exceeded the fair value of the contingent
consideration recorded at the acquisition date.

(b) Reflects the elimination of cash received in conjunction with the divestiture of certain operations.
(c) Reflects the addback of acquisition-related transaction costs and the settlement of an acquired tax liability.
(d) Reflects the cash settlement of pre-existing Progressive Waste share-based awards during the period.
(e) The aggregate tax effect of footnotes (a) through (d) is calculated based on the applied tax rates for the respective periods.

23 

Adjusted EBITDA 

We present adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, supplementally because it is widely used by investors 
as a performance and valuation measure in the solid waste industry. Management uses adjusted EBITDA as one of the 
principal  measures  to  evaluate  and  monitor  the  ongoing  financial  performance  of  our  operations.  We  define  adjusted 
EBITDA as net income attributable to Waste Connections, plus or minus net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling 
interests,  plus  income  tax  provision,  plus  interest  expense,  less  interest  income,  plus  depreciation  and  amortization 
expense,  plus  closure  and  post-closure  accretion  expense,  plus  or  minus  any  loss  or  gain  on  impairments  and  other 
operating items, plus other expense, less other income, plus loss on early extinguishment of debt. We further adjust this 
calculation  to  exclude  the  effects  of  other  items  management  believes  impact  the  ability  to  assess  the  operating 
performance of our business. This measure is not a substitute for, and should be used in conjunction with, GAAP financial 
measures.  Other  companies  may  calculate  adjusted  EBITDA  differently.  Our  adjusted  EBITDA  for  the years  ended 
December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, are calculated as follows (amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars): 

2022 

2020 

Years Ended December 31,  
2021 
$   835,662  $   618,047  $   204,677 
 (685) 
 49,922 
 162,375 
 (5,253) 
 752,404 
 15,095 
 466,718 
 1,392 
 — 

 442 
 152,253 
 162,796 
 (2,916)  
 813,009 
 14,497 
 32,316 
 (6,285)  
 115,288 

 339 
 212,962 
 202,331 
 (5,950)  
 918,960 
 16,253 
 18,230 
 (3,154)  
 — 

 24,933 
 86 

 9,803 
 5,536 
$  2,220,652  $  1,919,158  $  1,661,984 

 11,318 
 8,393 

Net income attributable to Waste Connections 
Plus (less): Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 
Plus: Income tax provision 
Plus: Interest expense 
Less: Interest income 
Plus: Depreciation and amortization 
Plus: Closure and post-closure accretion 
Plus: Impairments and other operating items 
Plus (less): Other expense (income), net 
Plus: Loss on early extinguishment of debt 
Adjustments: 

Plus: Transaction-related expenses (a) 
Plus: Fair value changes to equity awards (b) 

Adjusted EBITDA 

(a) Reflects the addback of acquisition-related transaction costs.
(b) Reflects fair value accounting changes associated with certain equity awards.

24 

Adjusted Net Income Attributable to Waste Connections and Adjusted Net Income per Diluted Share Attributable to Waste 
Connections 

We  present  adjusted  net  income  attributable  to  Waste  Connections  and  adjusted  net  income  per  diluted  share 
attributable to Waste Connections, both non-GAAP financial measures, supplementally because they are widely used by 
investors as a valuation measure in the solid waste industry. Management uses adjusted net income attributable to Waste 
Connections and adjusted net income per diluted share attributable to Waste Connections as one of the principal measures 
to evaluate and monitor the ongoing financial performance of our operations. We provide adjusted net income attributable 
to Waste Connections to exclude the effects of items management believes impact the comparability of operating results 
between periods. Adjusted net income attributable to Waste Connections has limitations due to the fact that it excludes 
items that have an impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Adjusted net income attributable to Waste 
Connections and adjusted net income per diluted share  attributable to Waste  Connections are  not a substitute  for, and 
should be used in conjunction with, GAAP financial measures. Other companies may calculate these non-GAAP financial 
measures differently. Our adjusted net income attributable to Waste Connections and adjusted net income per diluted share 
attributable  to  Waste  Connections  for  the years  ended  December 31,  2022,  2021  and  2020,  are  calculated  as  follows 
(amounts in thousands of U.S. dollars, except per share amounts): 

Reported net income attributable to Waste Connections 
Adjustments: 

Amortization of intangibles (a) 
Impairments and other operating items (b) 
Transaction-related expenses (c) 
Fair value changes to equity awards (d) 
Loss on early extinguishment of debt (e) 
Tax effect (f) 
Tax items (g) 

Adjusted net income attributable to Waste Connections 

2022 
$  835,662 

Years Ended December 31,  
2021 
$  618,047 

2020 
$   204,677 

 155,675 
 18,230 
 24,933 
 86 
 — 
 (49,312)  
 — 
$  985,274 

 139,279 
 32,316 
 11,318 
 8,393 
 115,288 
 (78,041)  
 — 
$  846,600 

 131,302 
 466,718 
 9,803 
 5,536 
 — 
 (153,758) 
 31,508 
$   695,786 

Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Waste Connections’ 
common shareholders: 
Reported net income 
Adjusted net income 

$ 
$ 

 3.24 
 3.82 

$ 
$ 

 2.36 
 3.23 

$ 
$ 

 0.78 
 2.64 

(a) Reflects the elimination of the non-cash amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
(b) Reflects adjustments for impairments and other operating items.
(c) Reflects the addback of acquisition-related transaction costs.
(d) Reflects fair value accounting changes associated with certain equity awards.
(e) Reflects the make-whole premium and related fees associated with the early termination of $1.5 billion in senior notes.
(f) The aggregate tax effect of the adjustments in footnotes (a) through (e) is calculated based on the applied tax rates for the

(g)

respective periods.
In 2020, reflects the impact of a portion of our 2019 inter-entity payments no longer being deductible for tax purposes due to the
finalization of tax regulations on April 7, 2020 under Internal Revenue Code Section 267A and an increase in deferred tax liabilities 
resulting from the E&P impairment.

Leverage Ratio 

The Leverage Ratio is calculated by dividing our Consolidated Total Funded Debt by Consolidated EBITDA (each as 
defined substantially identically in our Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement). The Leverage Ratio is based on 
EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. We present this ratio because it is used for the purposes of calculating financial 
covenants under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement. Management also uses this ratio as one of the principal 
measures to evaluate and monitor the indebtedness of the Company relative to its ability to generate income to service 
such debt. The Leverage Ratio is not a substitute for, and should be used in conjunction with, GAAP financial ratios. Other 
companies may calculate leverage ratios differently. 

25 

Inflation 

In the current environment, we have seen inflationary pressures resulting from higher fuel, materials and labor costs 
in certain markets and higher resulting third-party costs in areas such as brokerage, repairs and construction.  Consistent 
with industry practice, many of our contracts allow us to pass through certain costs to our customers, including increases 
in landfill tipping fees and, in some cases, fuel costs.  To the extent that there are decreases in fuel costs, in some cases, a 
portion of these reductions are passed through to customers in the form of lower fuel and material surcharges. Therefore, 
we believe that we should be able to increase prices to offset many cost increases that result from inflation in the ordinary 
course of business. However, competitive pressures or delays in the timing of rate increases under certain of our contracts 
may require us to absorb at least part of these cost increases, especially if cost increases exceed the average rate of inflation. 
Management’s estimates associated with inflation have an impact on our accounting for landfill liabilities. 

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates, prices of certain 
commodities and foreign currency exchange rate risks. We use hedge agreements to manage a portion of our risks related 
to  interest  rates.  While  we  are  exposed  to  credit  risk  in  the  event  of  non-performance  by  counterparties  to  our  hedge 
agreements,  in  all  cases  such  counterparties  are  highly  rated  financial  institutions  and  we  do  not  anticipate  non-
performance  under  current  market  conditions.  We  do  not  hold  or  issue  derivative  financial  instruments  for  trading 
purposes. We monitor our hedge positions by regularly evaluating the positions at market and by performing sensitivity 
analyses over the unhedged variable rate debt positions.  

At December 31, 2022, our derivative instruments included five interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the 
interest rate on the applicable notional amounts of our variable rate debt as follows (dollars in thousands of U.S. dollars): 

Date Entered (b) 
August 2017 
August 2017 
June 2018 
June 2018 
December 2018 

Notional 
Amount 
$   200,000 
$   150,000 
$   200,000 
$   200,000 
$   200,000 

Fixed 
Interest 
  Rate Paid(a)  

Variable 
Interest Rate 
Received 

Effective Date 

Expiration Date 
 2.1230 %   1-month Term SOFR  November 2022    October 2025 
 1.7720 %   1-month Term SOFR  November 2022    February 2023 
 2.8480 %   1-month Term SOFR  November 2022    October 2025 
 2.8284 %   1-month Term SOFR  November 2022    October 2025 
 2.7715 %   1-month Term SOFR  November 2022    July 2027 

(a) Plus applicable margin.
(b)

In October 2022, we amended the reference rate in all of our outstanding interest rate swap contracts to replace One-Month
LIBOR with One-Month Term SOFR and certain credit spread adjustments. We did not record any gains or losses upon the
conversion  of  the  reference  rates  in  these  interest  rate  swap  contracts,  and  we  believe  these  amendments  will  not  have  a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

On September 28, 2020, we terminated four of our interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $400.0 million, 
which  would  have  expired  in  January  2021.    As  a  result  of  terminating  these  interest  rate  swaps,  we  made  total  cash 
payments of $0.9 million to the counterparties of the swap agreements. 

Under derivatives and hedging guidance, the interest rate  swap agreements are considered cash flow  hedges for a 
portion of our variable rate debt, and we apply hedge accounting to account for these instruments. The notional amounts 
and all other significant terms of the swap agreements are matched to the provisions and terms of the variable rate debt 
being hedged. 

We  have  performed  sensitivity  analyses  to  determine  how  market  rate  changes  will  affect  the  fair  value  of  our 
unhedged  floating  rate  debt.  Such  an  analysis  is  inherently  limited  in  that  it  reflects  a  singular,  hypothetical  set  of 
assumptions.  Actual  market  movements  may  vary  significantly  from  our  assumptions.  Fair  value  sensitivity  is  not 
necessarily  indicative  of  the  ultimate  cash  flow  or  earnings  effect  we  would  recognize  from  the  assumed  market  rate 
movements. We are exposed to cash flow risk due to changes in interest rates with respect to the unhedged floating rate 
balances owed at December 31, 2022 and 2021, of $1.115 billion and $603.9 million, respectively, including floating rate 

26 

debt under our Credit Agreement and Term  Loan  Agreement.  A one percentage  point increase in interest rates on our 
variable-rate debt as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, would decrease our annual pre-tax income by approximately $11.1 
million and $6.0 million, respectively. All of our remaining debt instruments are at fixed rates, or effectively fixed under 
the  interest  rate  swap  agreements  described  above;  therefore,  changes  in  market  interest  rates  under  these  instruments 
would not significantly impact our cash flows or results of operations, subject to counterparty default risk. 

The market price of diesel fuel is unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly. Because of the  volume of fuel  we 
purchase each year, a significant increase in the price of fuel could adversely affect our business and reduce our operating 
margins. To manage a portion of this risk, we periodically enter into fuel hedge agreements related to forecasted diesel 
fuel purchases, and we also enter into fixed price fuel purchase contracts. At December 31, 2022, we had no fuel hedge 
agreements in place; however, we have entered into fixed price diesel fuel purchase contracts for 2023 as described below. 

For the year ending December 31, 2023, we expect to purchase approximately 89.2 million gallons of diesel fuel, of 
which 47.1 million gallons will be purchased at market prices and 42.1 million gallons will be purchased under our fixed 
price diesel fuel purchase contracts. We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes will 
affect the fair value of our unhedged, market rate diesel fuel purchases. Such an analysis is inherently limited in that it 
reflects  a  singular,  hypothetical  set  of  assumptions.  Actual  market  movements  may  vary  significantly  from  our 
assumptions.  Fair  value  sensitivity  is  not  necessarily  indicative  of  the  ultimate  cash  flow  or  earnings  effect  we  would 
recognize from the assumed market rate movements. With respect to the approximately 47.1 million gallons of unhedged 
diesel fuel we expect to purchase in 2023 at market prices, a $0.10 per gallon increase in the price of diesel fuel over 
the year would decrease our pre-tax income during this period by approximately $4.7 million. 

We  market a  variety of recyclable  materials,  including  compost,  cardboard, mixed paper, plastic containers, glass 
bottles  and  ferrous  and  aluminum  metals.  We  own  and  operate  recycling  operations  and  market  collected  recyclable 
materials to third parties for processing before resale. Where possible, to reduce our exposure to commodity price risk 
with  respect  to  recycled  materials,  we  have  adopted  a  pricing  strategy  of  charging  collection  and  processing  fees  for 
recycling volume collected from third parties. In the event of a decline in recycled commodity prices, a 10% decrease in 
average recycled commodity prices from the average prices that were in effect during the years ended December 31, 2022 
and 2021, would have had a $19.7 million and $19.6 million impact on revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022 
and 2021, respectively. 

We have operations in Canada and, where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency 
translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating costs. However, the impact of foreign 
currency has not materially affected our results of operations in 2022 or 2021. A $0.01 change in the Canadian dollar to 
U.S. dollar exchange rate would impact our annual revenue and EBITDA by approximately $13.0 million and $5.0 million, 
respectively. 

27